Chapter 2 ( Structure )

- word level Eategory 의 영향으로 중의성 !

1. Mistrust wounds
- lexical ambiguity와 structural ambiguity를 가지고 있음.                                 불신이 상처를 만든다.
- 첫번째 해석: This sentence takes a Noun + verb sequence parallel to ‘suspicion wounds’
- 두번째 해석: This sentences takes a Verb+ noun sequence parallel to ‘mistrust sores’
                                                                                                                                       상처를 믿지마라
2. very는 명사, 동사, 전치사를 수식하지 못한다. ( 형용사/ 부사만 수식 가능)
1) * Very girls love to have fun. 명사 수식
2) * He very adores her.동사 수식
>> 이 문장 주의: 부사가 동사를 수식하기에 very 또한 그럴 것이라 생각하지만 아님!
>> 그래서 very는 -ing/ -ed가 동사인지 형용사인지 구분할 때 쓰임.
Ex) He is a very caring person. >> caring: 형용사이다.
3) * It happened very after the party.

3. Morphology is a property of words rather than phrases. Ex) inflections( -s, -d, -er)
-Inflections attach to the end of words, not to the end of phrases. But there is one inflectional
morpheme which is indeed phrasal inflection.>> the genitive ( = possessive)’s inflection.
Ex) This crown is the king’s

The cognitive ‘s inflection must attach to the whole noun phrase, not to the end of the head noun.

_

3 만약에 the king 이 아니와 king 에

'

s 가 t은 거였으면 여기도 말미 되어야 한다 .

4. The president could not ratify the treaty.
The ambiguity of this sentence is structured in nature, and relates to the scope of the negative
participle ‘not’. For this reason, this type of ambiguity is known as scope of ambiguity.
Two possible interpretation.
1) On the first interpretation, ‘not’ might be argued to have within its scope(or to modify) the modal
could.
2) On the second interpretation, ‘not’ might be argued to have scope over( to modify) the Verb
phrase( ratify the treaty ).

통과하다
"

∅
Could not

not ratify
U

Ratify할
authority가 없다.

Ratify할
authority가 있다.

∞ was

「

_
VWaly U

s immediate constituent

(

) simply

s contraction 그래야 가능 :

simply : 당연하게도 (Sentence adverb )

simply

S
「

중의* (

psemdo - clefts : ambiguity ×

∞

Eould not

not ratify
~

Contraction:
(ii) 축약 안된다.
negative contraction is usually only possible when the negative modifies the
modal and not possible when negative modifies the following verb.

Scope of negation:
1) I didn’t omit my name deliberately.
>> Omitting my name was not something I made a point of doing.
>> scope of negation: omit my name deliberately.
2) I deliberately didn’t omit my name.
>> I deliberately didn’t omit my name.
>> scope of negation: omit my name.

(cid:8805)

∅

②

3) I didn’t go to the party because I wanted to see Kim.
중의성:
a) 파티에 가지 않음
The reason that I didn’t go to the party was that I wanted to see Kim.
>> scope of negation: go to the party.
b) 파티에 감.
It is not the case that I went to the party because I wanted to see him.
( I went for some other reason )
>> scope of negation : because I wanted to see Kim.

5. Right modifying other categories( right = completely )
Ex) Go right up the ladder.
      He fell right down the stairs.
      He arrived right on time.
      It is right under the bed.
      I am right out of matches.
      He went right inside.
      He fell right off the ledge.

* He right despaired.
* Life right can be cruel.
* she is right pretty.
* She looked at him right strangely.
* She chose right this one.

Evidence in support of  the assumption that sentences have a categorical
constituent structuring.

1. Movement
A) Preposing( topicalization ) : Only phrasal constituents(whole phrase)
can undergo preposing.

협박에도 굴복하자 X

But only the whole phrase( not just part of  a phrase) can be preposed in this
way.

= Full pprasel wmole np ) maximal NP

* Phrasal verb example

partile . preposition . advers → 왔다갔다하기 위움 :

O

다음 56번의 문장들이 비문인 이유를 설명하시오.
The participle ‘up’ in each sentences form a constituent together with the verb
not the noun phrase that follows.

Evidence in support of  the assumption that sentences have a categorical
constituent structuring.

B) Postposing : heavy or long phrase일 경우에

End weightprinciple .

Q 다음 59번 문장이 비문인 이유는??
All the terrible problems that he had encountered is a complete noun phrase. The
sentence only preposed some part of the whole phrase.
Only phrasal constituents can undergo preposing or postposing.

+ explain : dative movement 불가능 >> I explained the problem to my friend.
                                                           >> * I explained my friend the problem.
58(b) information processing을 더 중요하게 생각한다면 정문, 그렇지 않다면 dative
movement를 어겨서 비문이 될 수도 있다.

2. Sentence fragments

gotup the bill

( prepositional verb )

ringup t my elder sister [ phrasal verb )

pP

NP

Only phrase constituents( whole phrase) can serve as a sentence-fragments( in
appropriate context ).
The cinema라고만 해도 정문인 이유: While it is true that ‘the cinema’ is part of  the
PP(to the cinema), it is equally true that (the cinema) is itself  a phrase - namely a
noun phrase(NP).

3. Insertion of  adverbs : 성분 사이에 부사는 안된다.
ex) the team can rely on my support.
Certainly: sentence adverb
Completely: verb adverb

①

④

②

③①

③

②

There are two places where both
of  the adverbs can come together.
But for the last place, vp adverb
should precede S adverb.

rely t on my suppore :

pre positional

wers .

obvious

natural

5 - adverb : It is ( certain s that ~

Certainly naturally obviously . simply . unfortanarely

Vp - adverb :

completely , entiraly . slowly , qaickly passionately

4. Coordination
Only constituents can be conjoined, nonconstituent sequencing cannot be
conjoined.

1. The ordinary coordination

Ring up은 phrasal verb이기 때문에 ring up이 하나의 constituent이다.

모두 constituent이지만 왜 다음 문장 중에 (c) and (d)는 비문일까? only constituents of the same
category( form ) can be conjoined.

>> 결국 constituent( function )과 same category(form) 이 두 조건이 모두 맞아야 coordinate할 수 있다.
>> be동사는 form이 달라도 function이 같은거끼리 가능하다.
The girl is a monster and trying to pick on another child right now.

In each sentences in (79), we have conjoined word-level categories.

In each sentences in (80), we have conjoined phrasal-level categories.

4. Coordination
Only constituents can be conjoined, nonconstituent sequencing cannot be
conjoined.

2) Shared coordination ( Right node raising )

Shared string / complement/ complement
>> This is only possible when the shared string is possible constituent of
each of  the conjuncts( each of  two or more things which are joined or
associated).
The italicised sequence is shared between the two conjuncts.

만약 이 문장이 정문이 되려면 : pick up, ring up이기 때문에 ‘up Mary’s sister’를 나눌 수 없음 / Mary’s
sister만 공유해야 한다.
revision : John rang up and Harry picked up, Mary’s sister.

prepositional verb and phrasal verb
1. Walk up - prepositional verb
2. Run up - prepositional verb
>> ‘up the hill’ is a constituent of both the verb
]
]
Ex) John walked up the hill and Mary ran up the hill.

[

ㄴ

)

S

(2 )

S

NB
Jonn

VP

ND

zonn

V

P

V

V

NP

3. Ring up - phrasal verb
4. Pick up - phrasal verb
>> ‘Mary’s sister’ is a constituent of both the verb
Ex) John rang up Mary’s sister and Harry picked up Mary’s sister.

]

]

[

o얘만 smared
하는 것듯 X P 장 √

waiked Λ Λ Δ
mary

p

'

s

ap

the bill

rang upsister

5. Pronominalization

Pronouns typically refer back to Noun phrase, not individual nouns. Therefore it is
quite odd to call them pronouns even when they are referring back to noun
phrases not nouns.

대명사는 chimwho ) 이렇게수식불가능하다' : whole INP - phrase (X )

* 명사 외의 품사도 대신할 수 있으니까 pro-constituents, proforms.
(Not all pro-constituents are Pro-Nps )

~ go mome 이 하나의 성분인지 대체를 통해 증영해보세요 !

n

늘 명사리에 있으면서 문장전체를 받는다 .

대

s semaatically

= symtaEticanlly

s
ㅷ t 은 의미적으로(semanticanly )

문장을 대체하나 자리는 (Syntactizally)
NP 캐리에 와야 한다!

σ

Sentence position !!

← syntactic측면만 !

6. Ellipsis ( VP deletion )

「조동사 , not,to [생략 × )

1 VP 에 포함시키지 ×

높

If  the missing part of  the sentence can be understood from the context.
Only Vps can undergo ellipsis.

λ

s

도

|

NP

may bot

VP

→

updeletion ws V - deletion

트포) n마을 W∞ 의 spec 으로 보지 *
(Co로써VP γ전체생약 되없다고 판단

sVD -daseti'

on

Basart ) 어마을 VP의 spec 으로 보아

V□ 정체 생략 X

→ V

'

decetion

Word, used as phrasesPhrasean2l 인더)

단어 r ( cars = phrase lerel ?

」

NOI NP이미도 한 증거영

^

preposing , N 미면서mpull parase

-dibary coordination

NO 10NM N ☆

N . SUP

」 N . owp

L

PRD - RP ( 통사적으로 1NP 대체 )

의 미작으로는 wnolephrase리칸다 .

Pseudocleft sentence

what n wast pthrase

④

EX] what sonn did was eat the pizza naned ?

5

fDEus position = PP

believe 는 릎P 취한다 Fimile한 Cp 만 취한다 . ( tmat절 )

Bill promised caPrPRo to benawe himse ( f 3 .
what Bill promisedwas e [P pRo to behawe himselt ) .
Eleft santenae 는 7P를 EDcuS position 으로 취할 E ☆

*

what

Bill believed was 7 p nim to be janocent) .

> EP 와 SP 구분 !

Testing the structure

I출 !!

Replacement

Prepositional

해을 가하다

s vpsrorupr Woler!

Phrasal

. . prepositionalvers have a consistent

, componential measing ,

pprasal verbs

idiosyneraticmeaning .

Selection Restrictions

Prepositional

Phrasal

↳

Has related meanings

↳

 No related meanings

Movement test

Only full phrases can undergo movement.

Since only full phrases can undergo movement, it follows that the italicised
sequence in (141) must be a full phrase and since it contains the head preposition
‘off’, it clearly must be a prepositional phrase. In *142 this is not possible.

getl off the bus

put off 1 the customers

Sentence fragment test

Distribution of  Adverbial phrase

Ψ

1. Drunks would get slowly off  the bus.

2. * Drunks would put completely off  the customers.

Coordination test

f

FEX

Ellipsis test( Gapping = V-deletion)

VP deletion과 달리 V-deletion( V-gapping)은 조동사까지 꼭 생략해야 한다.
Gapping의 넓은 의미 >> 조동사까지도 삭제 >> 지문에 주어진 대로 gapping 해석하기

s

UP
Nb
DM i
Many
could

"

close

왬
tme door

put off is somehow treated as a single
compound verb.
한덩어리로 본다.

Pronominalization( order : information processing )

부사성결 Particle

「

Can be possible but the order is wrong.

r예 그 ωP 가 들어가도 3 름 !

~

→ get oof the bus .

H PPo 야 ?

pP
Λ
⑦ NP

앞에! 는

vD
Δ

prunks

s

M

V β

would

V

^

U

pet

P

Off

iUP

Δ

the cestomers

2번째경우 PutC oFf

↓ PP

수식 : 1

! specifierar2l

p

]

pβ
] PP
]

[
[
[

수식받는 순간 PP 3 N 된다!

pre and post modifiers can only modify PP, not P.
>> Put off the customers. ( Off = P )
>> Put the customers off ( Off = PP )

술주정뱅이 사람들은 고객들이 음식을 못 먹게 한다/ 음식을 먹기 싫게 한다.

p

[

UP

]

↓ 조동사 남계짐 !

A) VP preposing
B) VP pro-form
C) VP Coordination
D) Ellipsis ( VP deletion )

s

M

uwill

NP
ㅿ

zon

Vb

a V

finists

Np

8

the assignment

왜 E 가 비문인가? completely = Vp- adverb인데 … 고

Adjacency principle 위반 : An NP complement of  a verb must be position to ( right next to ) its verb.

complement

complement

~ complement
* talteaboutsomethingtosomebody

(171) : about every point와 with the tax-man이 모두 complement.

℃

NP 니간 !

(172) : Adjacency principle어김 : every point

나중에는 없어진다 .

complementladjunct가 나오면서 !

둘ar complemenk
~을 ~에 싣다.

듐er complement
~에~을 싣다.

NP를 Vevb와

brol !

VP deletion vs V-deletion

- sentence fragmentor our γ p- delebon !

L 3 얘넨성분이 아닌더데 ? + n 씨 0 야 ~ 그냥생략이야 ~
rp - deletion

」

his farther as hirk I his mother a skirt 가 성불처럼 보인다!

] VP와uporconjunction이 된 ordinary coordinatioon !

I

empty werb

」 aomplement : 고개

소

V

{

□, pronominalization( α

preposing ( α ) : 성분이 ×
) :성분이

P

give

NP

NP

[

)

[

rn

VB

}

Exercise :

Transformational grammar chapter 2 복습테스트

1) Scope of the negation is an important fact that determines the meanings of
sentences. Let’s take a look at the sentences below:

(1) a. Tom did not destroy the evidence.
     b. Tom destroyed the evidence.

In (la), the scope of the negation is the entire sentence. This is because the not
changes the meaning of its corresponding aﬃrmative sentence in (lb).

With adverbs like deliberately, simply, scope of negation is diﬀerent, depending on
whether the adverb is before not, as in (2), or after it, as in (3). The position or the
adverb causes (2) and (3) to have diﬀerent meanings.

(2) She expressly did not withhold information from the police.
(3) She didn’t expressly withhold information from the police.

The meaning of (2) is “she didn’t withhold information.” The meaning of (3) is “she did
withhold information, but this was not done on purpose.”

Sometimes, changes in the relative scope of negation can create ambiguity in
sentences like the sentence below.

(4) The president could not ratify the treaty.

State the two possible meanings of the sentence in (4). Then, state one possible way
to solve the ambiguity.

On one meaning, the sentence indicates that the president could not ratify the
treaty because he doesn’t have the authority to do so. On the other meaning,
the president has the authority to do it but he isn’t interested in doing so.
One possible way is to insert sentence adverb like ‘simply’ :
The president could not simply ratify the treaty.
The president could simply not ratify the treaty.

2)

One way of emphasizing certain parts of a sentence may be preposing.

(1) I can’t stand your elder sister.

For example, one way of emphasizing the sequence your elder sister in a sentence
is:  ( Your elder sister), I can’t stand.

However, it turns out that while some parts of sentences can be preposed in this
way, others cannot. For example, various types of phrasal constituent such as
below can freely undergo preposing:

며
(2)

k
(3)

Likewise, in the case of sentences such as:

(4)  (a) John rang up his mother
      (b) John stood up his date.
      (c) John looked up her phone number.

We cannot prepose up together with the rest of the sentence.

State the reason ‘up’ in sentences of (4) cannot be preposed indicating the
constituency of ‘up’.
The particle ‘up’ form a constituent with the preceding verb, not the noun
phrase that follows.

(3)

In English, there is a tendency to prevent anything from intervening between a verb
and the following noun phrase. We might describe this restriction in terms of a
principle such as (1) below:

(1)

The restriction above accounts for contrasts such as that between (2) and (3) below:

(2)

(3)

    (4) a. John argued about every point with the tax man.
         b. John argued with the tax man every point.

Based on the information above, identify one ungrammatical sentence in (4) and
explain why.

Sentence 4(b) is ungrammatical. Considering the strict adjacency principle, ‘every
point’ which is an NP should come before the prepositional phrase ‘ with the tax
man’ in order to strictly be adjacent to its verb.

Transformational grammar chapter 3 복습테스트

(1) Read the passage (A) and the sentences in (B), and follow the directions.

                                                                             (A)

We can illustrate the importance of the c-command relation in syntactic description by looking
at the distribution of a class of expressions which are known as anaphors.

、

1

1

|

뼉

|

옇

e
which is called an antecedent.

When anaphor lacks compatible antecedent, the resulting sentences are
ungrammatical like the following.

⑫

The question of what is the right position for the antecedent can be deﬁned in terms
of the following structural condition:

Identify one ungrammatical sentence in (B), and explain why, based on the description in
(A). Then, identify one ambiguous sentence from (B) and explain why, discussing the
structural explanation about the c-command relation.

                                                                (B)

(a) The soldiers might disgrace themselves.
(b) The soldiers’ behavior might disgrace themselves.
(c)  They may implicate each other.
(d) The men will shoot the arrows at each other.

(2) Read the passage and follow the directions.

뼝

(cid:8805)

P

Draw a structural tree for the sentence in (1) and explain why it is ungrammatical
according to the constraint.

(3) Read the passage and follow the directions.

( A )

Sentence 6(a) is ungrammatical since ever does not precede and are not c-commanded by a
negative constituent.

( B )

(a) Some Frenchman wouldn’t ever help an Englishman.
(b) Some Frenchman would ever help no Englishman.
(c) Some Frenchman wouldn’t help an Englishman ever.
(d) Some Frenchman who don’t like English people ever would help an Englishman.

Identify all and only ungrammatical sentence(s) in (B) and explain why.

Transformational grammar chapter 3

^

(1) (B), The anaphor ‘themselves’ cannot be c-commanded by its
potential antecedent ‘the soldiers’.
(D), On one meaning, ‘each other’ might refer back to the
arrows that the arrows are being shot at other arrows.  On
the other, ‘each other’ refer back to the men that the arrows
are being shot by men at the other men. The sentence is
ambiguous since the reciprocal ‘each other’ can be c-
commanded by ‘the men’ and also ‘the arrows’.

(2)

S

_

nD

Drunks

Modaul
wouid

Vp

Vkis

|

ND

the customers

삶'Atmpeteyt

Adverbial like ‘completely’ can only be an immediate constituent
of VP. V(i) and all the descendants of  V(i) must precede
‘completely’ to be in accordance with the constraint. However,
‘off’ does not precede ‘completely,’ which does not satisfy the
condition.

(3) (b) and (d)
For (b), ‘ever’ is not preceded and is not c-commanded by a
negative constituent ‘no’. For (d), ‘ ever’ is preceded by a
negative constituent but is not c-commanded by it.

Transformational grammar chapter 4 Noun phrases 복습 테스트

(1) Read the passage and follow the directions.

              NP [ The King of England ]

There seems to be plenty of evidence that the sequence [ of England ]
is a PP constituent in the Noun phrase above.
First, it can be coordinated with another similar PP (= of-phrase ), as in:

⑧

⑨

⑨

⑧

⑧

Based on the description in the passage above, explain whether the
underlined part of the sentence below is a constituent or not using at
least two ways.

They banned the discussion of that document.

(2) State whether each underlined part is a complement or an adjunct.
( Could be both : State the meaning of each )

1. A student of physics.
2. A student with long hair.
3. A student with long hair and with short arms.
4. The book on the table.
5. The attack on the Prime minister.
6. The loss of this ship
7. Her disgust at his behavior
8. His disillusionment with Linguistics
9. The advertisement on the television
10. The advertisement about the television
11. His resignation from the headmaster
12. His resignation because of the scandal
13. A cup with a broken handle
14. The ﬁght after the match
15. Your reply to my letter
16. The loss of this ship
17. Decision on the boat
18. A woman with an umbrella
19. An advocate of the abolition
20. An advocate of the abolition of indirect taxation.
21. Her dislike of men
22. A girl with a dislike of macho man.
23. The suggestion that we should abandon cruise missiles
24. The demand for him to resign
25. The question whether euthanasia is ethical
26. English teacher
27. The book about science
28. The shop on the corner
29. Damage to the brain
30. Relief from the famine

(3) Read the passage and follow the direction.

. ^

☆

㎡

..

It is

뼝

㎡

뻘㎡

Based on the description in the text above, state whether each
sentence is ambiguous or not and explain why.

A) I think it could be a crazy thing to employ a French English teacher.
B) A woman with three children with ginger hair.

Transformational grammar answers

(1)
Coordination: They banned the discussion of that document and of this
document.

Shared constituent: They banned the discussion, and the others
accepted the discussion, of that document.

Sentence fragment:
Speaker A : Did they ban the discussion of this document?
Speaker B: No, of that document.

Preposing :
Of what document did they ban the discussion?

(2)
1) complement
2) adjunct
3) adjunct. Adjunct
4) adjunct
5) complement
6) complement
7) complement
8) complement
9) adjunct
10) complement
11) complement
12) adjunct
13) adjunct
14) adjunct
15) complement
16) complement
17) complement: 보트에 대한 결정 / Adjunct : 보트 위에서 결정
18) adjunct

19) complement
20) of the abolition: an advocate의
complement/ of indirect taxation: the
abolition의 complement
21) complement
22) adjunct/ complement
23) complement
24) complement
25) complement
26) complement: 영어 가르치는 선생님
     adjunct : 영어권 나라의 선생님
27) complement
28) adjunct
29) complement
30) complement

(3) Sentence (A) is unambiguous and sentence (B) is ambiguous.
For sentence (A), the complement ‘English’ is always close to the
head ‘teacher’ which allows the sentence to have one meaning; it
would be a crazy thing to employ a teacher who is French and
teaches English. For sentence (B), it might be either the woman or
the children who have ginger hair since the prepositional phrases
‘with three children’ and ‘ with ginger hair’ are both adjuncts.

Chapter 5 Other phrases

specifier ! : 의미제한

Verb phrases
Not VP but V-bar can be preposed.

Modiﬁer maximality constraint

Xx

호화대투자염주

XP

specifier

:

"

Adjunkt

X

L→ / exilal

complement

caregoy = word lomes

ptionality of
specifiersand

complements

Any non-head terms mentioned in rules
must be maximal projections.

Ʃ

Head 와 밀접한 관련 σ
= complement
= a djunciE

= complement

= adjunct

참보

시간

Complements and adjuncts (structural ambiguity)

i

그 안에 있.

Λ {

V

complement

" 그 밖에 있다 .

Λ £
i Adjunct

'

√

기

이럴 기준으로 밖에 !

!it! ontke boat

1 ) compler1t| : :

~ 0 어 )대공신

VD
↓

2) adjun(← : 장소 !

VP

locb ) /ast night

√

decide

⑫√ '
on the d
boat

decide

PB
on the

bocat

Complement: 어젯밤에 대해 설명              Adjunct: 어젯밤에 무언가에 대해 설명

"

Vp
↓

ㄺ

V ∞
이

V

explain

iwp
Δ

last nignt

"
↓
explain

Nb

Δ

last nignt

Complements and adjuncts (passivization)

Complements and adjuncts (obligatory)

Complements can be passivized while adjuncts cannot.

√

^

√

Λ

We can conclude from the above: Mary,badly=complement/ last night=adjunct

Passivization possible >> means the NP is complement not adjunct
[ one way to solve the ambiguity of the sentences]

Complements and adjuncts (pronominalization)
‘Do so’ = Pro-V-bar (N-bar : one)

It could be seen from the fact that [last night] cannot precede [badly]!
‘Badly’ is a complement and complements should be closer to the head than
adjuncts.

Complements and adjuncts (Ellipsis)

complement

Adjunct

complementcormplemt

21 ( a )

Vp
i

2 리 ( ∞ )

VP
이

Leaving out adjunct is  possible.

i

√

ND
buly Δ

thebook

ㅱ V
put

on. 9

ㅱ

on tme table

Nㅱ

+HLBNOVC

~ adjunct

_

omplement -

Head is always in the replacement.

Complements and adjuncts (Ordering)
[ Head + complement + adjunct ]

complerment

장소

-

spec

「

「

Eomplement

VP

i

L
; Adjenct

r Adjunct

Bkij 3

㉝

↑

34

( D)

「

complement

complene←

시간

」

Complements and adjuncts (Gapping)

Complements and adjuncts (Co occurrence R)

a

"

치

- axtemal
= adjunct

」 internal

= comblement

3bcabcars : | 3H

36lb) a 3 m

∞

fpr comppement o 31
7 때문에 동*에 제약이

있는것는

36(a),36(b) both have the sequence [verb + Np + PP]. But due to the fact
that 36(a) is grammatical, we can conclude ‘on Fridays’ is an adjunct.
 = Do not violate the gapping principle.

Inquire does not allow a person complement to follow. PP complement
>> restrictions pf subcategories are only for the complements not
adjuncts.

Has no restrictions on what kind of verb appears in front. It is
an adjunct.

Complements and adjuncts (emphatic reﬂexives)

Adjectival phrases

‘Himself’ can be sisters to V-bar while it cannot be sisters to V.

complement

specifier
(48) John isn’t that fond of Mary.
     * John isn’t [ AP that fond ]
X without a complement has a status of X-bar.

「

(

'

mimself

bimself

specifiez

‘Very’ modiﬁes A-bar but not N-bar.

specifier

Attributes = Premodiﬁers that expand x-bar into x-bar.

‘More or less’ could modify both A-bar and N-bar.

specifier

rpis

‘Much’ is a N-bar modiﬁer not A-bar.

Pro-form ‘SO’ = A-bar 대체

Expressions such as ‘completely’ and ‘utterly’ can be joined to
the immediate left of the v-bar. Not to the left of V-double-bar.

In some way = adjunct/ of Mary = complement
57) Fond [ PP of Mary ] [ PP in some ways ].

∞

m의siste」관계 t oo

complemento

인'tbe book ' 1 heak와 더 가바이있어야한다.

륵

‘Completely’ can join not only to the left but also to the right.

b

먕

"

George 「
will

Vp

As

p

.

nave

"

Adwp

1

completely

"

AdVp

Δ

completely

√

read

lup
∞

tme boo액

A) Obligatory or not
( obligatory하다면 그러한건 complement밖에 없음)
* Fond [ in some ways ]
  Fond [ of Mary ]
B) Word ordering
Fond [ of Mary ] [ in some ways ]
* Fond [ in some ways ] [ of Mary ]
C) Pro-form ‘so’ : ‘in some way’ can be left out or
not. >> which means it is an adjunct.

Adjectives in English do not permit preceding
complements.

r complement ? adjunlt ?

ye odds witm sm : ~와 r미가 좋게 X

요즘은 α 가 덜 W쁘다 .

>> severely, directly, personally = adjunct
>> of the president = complement

Speciﬁer : that, this, very, too, so quite, more
>> expand A-bar into A-double-bar.

omplement 는 bar level ee체에서 어떤식으로던 빠지치 .
with hisfrends 를 빼고 대체 중= pP : adsunctoler .

Attributes(= adjuncts ) will occur closer to
head adjective than speciﬁers( = so )

Prepositional phrases

70) Put it [ right on the top shelf ]
Right : speciﬁer

72) there replacement ( P-bar replacement )
Put it [ right there ]
There: on the top shelf

So- replacement ( so : P-bar replacement )

각각음. 구분:
{

Completely: attribute or adjunct expanding P-
bar into P-bar
Determiner : Speciﬁer >> expanding P-bar into
P-double-bar

>> This means that ‘completely’ has to occur
close to the head than the determiner.

Adjumat

Adjunct

☆complemant

②

‰

"

pp

Δ

withnis

pp

AduD

'

이 friends

witn
bis friends

completely

p

at

onp
dds

∅

ㅱ

AdVP
dompletely

"

미

P

ant

NP
oads

대체가능한 P 'γ 3개

pP
"

AdVp

1

completely

- 83 ( b)

p

'

p

~ 83( a)

p

at

NB
oads

Pp
Δ

witn bis

collegues

Here, ‘so’ is not a p-bar proform but a
determiner that is a speciﬁer.

The complement pp ‘of touch’ has to be closer
to the head ‘out’ than the adjunct PP ‘ in
some way’
( no crossing branch constraint )

PP의 speciﬁer 구분하기

Really important : test 100 percent
tunctions as heads

.

:
{

'

Why? 93(b)
1. Speciﬁes are optional whereas heads are not.
Ex) I have put your books in the corner.
>> Even without ‘over’ the sentence is grammatical.

2. The presence of ‘over’ excludes the presence of
another prepositional speciﬁer such as ‘right’.

3. ‘ Over’ can take a complement of its own.

각각이 specifiersr otekr

theree over의 complement

pP
"
Λ
p ㅱ

Ly funation as sBecifier

italitised , head ! !

over

there

1) Head which takes an pp complement
2) Speciﬁer which takes a P-bar complement

서3(a)

13

맴

P

from

pP
"

beforeb

the war

aB ( ) 1 )

ㅱ

p

over

PP

"

p

in

NB

Δ

thecomer

직

pP

bp

from

미

p

before

ND
ㅿ

the war

ㄺ

pp

PB

oven

㎥

P

ig

NB
Δ

thecorner

Why? 93(a)
1. Speciﬁers are generally optional whereas
heads are not.
Ex) * The dispute dates before the war.
>> without ‘from’ the sentence is ungrammatical

2. The before phrase can take its own speciﬁer

→

this thak : specifiez

O
ㆀ
O

ㆁ

.못다이"

from

rigut

esore했 evr

Complements and Adjuncts 정리
(1) Ban the discussion in which document
(2) Ban the discussion of which document
(3) The king of England
(4) A student of physics
(5) A student with long hair.
(6) A student of high moral principles
- two interpretation
(7) A student with long hair with short arms.
(8) A student of physics of Chemistry
(9) A student with long hair in the corner.
(10) A student of physics and with long hair.
(11) A student of chemistry and professor with
long hair.
(12) Your reply to my letter.
(13) The attack on the prime minister.
(14) The loss of this ship
(15) The book on the table
(16) The book about the table
(17 Her disgust at this behavior
(18) The advertisement for the television
(19) The advertisement on the television
(20) The ﬁght after the match
(21) The ﬁght with Samuel
(22) His disillusionment with linguistics
(23) His resignation because of the scandal
(24) His resignation from the headmaster
(25) A cup with a broken handle
(26) The suggestion that we should abandon
cruise missiles.
(27) The demand for him to resign.
(28) The question whether euthanasia is
ethical.
(29) The abolition of taxes next year
(30) The student of physics absent from class
(31) The king of England who abdicated
(32) An advocate of the abolition of indirect
taxation
(33) A woman with an umbrella with a red
handle
(34) Her dislike of men with bid egos
(35) A girl with a dislike of macho man
(36) The men shot the arrow at each other.
(37) Cambridge physics student
- way to solve this ambiguity

(1) complement
(2) adjunct
(3) complement
(4) complement
(5) adjunct
(6) complement: A student that studies high moral
principles.
Adjunct: A student who has high moral principles.
(7) adjunct, adjunct
(8) complement, complement
(9) adjunct, adjunct
(10) * complement and adjunct cannot be coordinated
since they are different level categories.
(11) of chemistry: complement
      With long hair : adjunct
However, the sentence is not ungrammatical since the
two adjoined categories are all N-bar.
(12) complement
(13) complement
(14) complement
(15) adjunct
(16) complement
(17) complement
(18) complement
(19) adjunct
(20) adjunct
(21) complement
(22) complement
(23) adjunct
(24) complement
(25) adjunct
(26) complement
(27) complement
(28) complement
(29) complement. Adjunct
(30) complement. Adjunct
(31) complement. Adjunct
(32) complement. Abolition의 complement
(33) adjunct. Umbrella’s adjunct
(34) complement, men의 adjunct
(35) adjunct, dislike’s complement
(36) complement
(37)
Cambridge: adjunct/ physics: complement
>> A student from Cambridge who studies physics
Cambridge physics: both complement
>> A student who studies Cambridge physics.

(38) The pornography ban
(39) Personnel recruitment
(40) The charity appeal
(41) famine relief
(42) Brain damage
(43) The fraud investigations
(44) A Debbie Harry fan
(45) The treachery allegations
(46) The corner shop
(47) The shipyard strike
(48) The iron lady
(49) The river bridge
(50) A typewriter keyboard
(51) A cream sauce
(52) China tea
(53) The winter weather
(54) The proportional representation campaign
(55) An English teacher
(56) A French English teacher
(57) Observation of student
(58) The discussion of the riots.
(59) The discussion in the bar
(60) The claim that you made a mistake
(61) The claim that you made

Chapter 5
(1) He will work at the job.
(2) He will work at the ofﬁce.
(3) He laughed at the clown.
(4) He laughed at ten o’clock.
(5) He may decide on the boat.
(6) He couldn’t explain last night.
(7) This job needs to be worked at by an expert.
(8) This ofﬁce is worked at by a lot of people.
(9) The clown was laughed at by everyone.
(10) Ten o’clock was laughed at by everyone.
(11) John will bake the cake himself for the party.
(12) John will put the candles himself on the cake.
(13) George will have completely read the book.
(14) George will completely have read the book.
(15) George completely will have read the book.
(16) George will have read the book completely.
(17) George will have read completely the book.
(18) Fond of Mary in some ways.
(19) He is less at odds with his friends now.
(20) He is at odds completely with his friends.
(21) He is at odds with his friends completely.
(22) He is so out in some ways of touch.

(38) complement
(39) complement
(40) complement
(41) complement
(42) complement
(43) complement
(44) complement
(45) adjunct
(46) adjunct
(47) adjunct
(48) adjunct
(49) adjunct
(50) adjunct
(51) adjunct
(52) adjunct
(53) adjunct
(54) ambiguous ( both adjunct )
- propositional representation을 하는 campaign
- propositional representation을 하자고 주장하는 운동
(55) ambiguous
- complement: A teacher who teaches English
- adjunct : A teacher who is from an English country
(56) Not ambiguous
French : Adjunct/ English: complement
A teacher who is French who teaches English.
Complement has to be closer to the head than adjunct.
(57) Observe students: complement
Students are doing the observation: adjunct
(58) complement
(59) adjunct
(60) complement
(61) adjunct
(1) complement
(2) adjunct
(3) complement
(4) adjunct
(5) complement: about the boat adjunct: place
(6) Complement: about last night / adjunct: time
(7). 8,9,10 )complement: passivization possible
(11) ‘himself’ reﬂexive is a v-bar level. It can only be
sisters to V-bar.
*(12)
(13) ‘completely’ is an adverb that expand V-bar into V-
bar.
*(14) (15)
(16) It could be attached to the end
*(17) A complement has to be close to the head than
adjunct ‘ completely’
(18) of Mary: complement/ in some ways: adjunct

(19) at odds: complement
     With his friends : adjunct
(20) grammatical
(21) grammatical
*(22) complement should be closer
to the head than adjunct

(23) complement: what boat to choose /Adjunct: place
(24) complement: about last night/ adjunct: time
(25) Complements are capable of passivization.
= 26.27.28
(29) (30)One way to solve the ambiguity of the sentences
in 23,24 is to passivize the sentence. Here, the sentences
only can be interpreted as ‘the boat’ and ‘last night’
being the complement not adjunct.
(31) ‘buy the book’ replace
*(32) ‘put the book’ replace : do so replaces v-bar level
but the part that it replaced in this sentence is not v-
bar.
(33) complement, adjunct
*(34) adjunct, complement
*(35) adjunct, complement
(36) Asked. Inquire needs a PP complement
(37) VP ellipsis: be going to the cinema on Tuesday.
V-bar ellipsis: going to the cinema. Going to the cinema
on Tuesday.
* (38)
* (39) : verb gapping cannot leave more than one
complement behind.
cars: comp/ on Fridays: adjunct
(40)
*(41): himself must be sisters to v-bar not v.
(42)
*43,44
(45)
*(46) complements must be closer to the head than adj.
*(47)
(48)
(49)
(50)
*(51)
(52) at odds: complement. With his friends: adjunct
(53) at odds replace
(54) at odds with his friends replace
(55) ‘completely’ could either modify ‘at odds’ or
‘with his friends’.
(56) at odds replace
(57) at odds with his friends replace

(23) He may decide on the boat.
(24) He couldn’t explain last night.
(25) This job needs to be worked at by an expert.
(26) This ofﬁce is worked at by a lot of people.
(27) The clown was laughed at by everyone.
(28) Ten o’clock was laughed at by everyone.
(29) The boat was decided on after lengthy
deliberation.
(30) Last night couldn’t be explained by everyone.
(31) John will buy the book on Tuesday, and Paul
will do so on Thursday.
(32) John will put the book on the table, and Paul
will do so on the chair.
(33) He worked at the job at the ofﬁce.
(34) He worked at the ofﬁce at the job.
(35) He laughed at ten o’clock at the clown.
(36) John ( asked / inquired ) the man next door.
(37) Where to ellipsis?
John might be going to the cinema on Tuesday.
(38) Who will put the book where?
John will put the book on the table.
(39) Gapping
- John put Fido in the doghouse, and Sam put Spot
in the yard.
- John sells trucks on Thursdays, and Mary sells
Cars on Fridays.
(40) John will bake the cake himself for the party.
(41) John will put the candles himself on the cake.
(42) George will have completely read the book.
(43) George will completely have read the book.
(44) George completely will have read the book.
(45) George will have read the book completely.
(46) George will have read completely the book.
(47) He was completely in the wrong.
(48) He was in the wrong completely.
(49) He was partly in the wrong, and perhaps
completely so.
(50) He was so completely in the wrong.
(51) He was completely so in the wrong.
(52) He is less at odds with his friends now.
(53) I know that he’s at odds with his colleagues,,
but he’s less so with his friends.
(54) I know that he always used to be at odds with
his friends, but he’s less so these days,
(55) ambiguous?
He is completely at odds with his friends.
(56) He is slightly at odds with his colleagues, but
completely so with his friends.
(47) He used to be only slightly at odds with his
friends, but now he’s completely so.

(48) He is at odds completely with his friends
(49) He is at odds with his friends completely.
(50) He is so out in some ways of touch.
(51) This dispute dates from before the war.
(52) I have put your books over in the corner.
>> state whether ‘from’ and ‘over’ are speciﬁer or
a head?

(48)
(49)
*(50) complements should come closer to the head
than adjuncts.
(51) speciﬁer: optional/ head: obligatory
From: head >> without it, doesn’t make sense
From could take its own speciﬁer
Over: speciﬁer >> without it do make sense
Over cannot take another speciﬁer

3

At N -bar

+ EN - bar 3

(1) adjunct
(2) complement
(3) complement
(4) complement
(5) adjunct
(6) complement : A student that studies h.m.p
Adjunct : A student that has h.m.p
(7) adjunct + adjunct
(8) * complements cannot be stacked ( illiteracy )
(9) adjunct + adjunct
(10) *complement + adjunct
(11) 밑줄은 complement/ adjunct이지만 앞 NP + 뒤 NP
N -bar + N - par
coordinate
(12) complement
(13) complement
(14) complement
(15) adjunct
(16) complement
(17) complement
(18) complement
(19) adjunct
(20) adjunct
(21) complement
(22) complement
(23) adjunct
(24) complement
(25) adjunct
(26) complement
(27) complement
(28) complement
(29) complement/ adjunct
(30) complement / adjunct
(31) complement / adjunct
(32) advocate의 complement/ abolition의
complement
(33) woman의 adjunct / umbrella의 adjunct
(34) dislike의 complement / men의 adjunct
(35) girl의 adjunct/ dislike의 complement
(36)  A student from Cambridge who studies physics
A student who studies Cambridge physics.

COmpX 2

Adjunc←

comp

(38) complement
(39) complement
(40) complement
(41) complement
(42) complement
(43) complement
(44) complement
θ
(45) complement
(54) complement : pr 을 하는 캠페인
adjunct : pr을 하자고 주장하는 운동
(55) Teacher who teaches English - complement
Teacher who is from an English country - adjunct
(56) A teacher who teaches English and who is from
France ( ambiguity resolved )
(57) Student observe: adjunct / observe the
students : complement
(58) complement (59) adjunct (60) complement
(61) adjunct

(1) complement.  (2) adjunct
(3) complement   (4) adjunct
(5) complement : decide about the boat
     Adjunct : place
(6) comp : explain about last night
Adjunct: time
(7) complement (8) adjunct (9) complement
(10) adjunct - passivization possible for comps
(11) grammatical
* (12) cannot separate between complements
(13)/ (14) / *(15) / (16) / * (17)
(18) complement / adjunct
(19) complement / complement
*(20) / (21) /
* (22) : adjunct / complement

- 지문 Eera라

?

⑬

(23) complement : decide about the boat ( topic)
Adjunct : (place )
(24) complement : about last night ( topic)
Adjunct : (time )
(25) complement (26) adjunct (27) complement
(28) adjunct (29) complement (30) complement
(31) / *(32) :do so replaces v-bar level, here is
not v-bar
(33) comp/ adjunct  * (34) adjunct/ comp
*(35) adjunct/ comp (36) ask / inquire + pp comp
(37) John might be going to the cinema on
Tuesday, and Mary might on Thursday.
Vp ellipsis : be going to the cinema on Tuesday.
V-bar ellipsis : going to the cinema / going to the
cinema on Tuesday.
* (38)
* (39)
(40) / *(41) / (42) / (43) / *(44) / (45) / *(46)
(47) / (48) / (49) / (50) / *(51) / (52) / (53) /
(54) / (55) : yes - completely could either modify
‘at odds’ or ‘at odds with his friends’. / (56) /
(57)/* (58) / (59) / *(60) / (61): from
( specifier ) / (62) : over ( specifier )
61/ 62: Specifier ) optional & Head ) obligatory
61) from: head > without it, doesn’t make sense/
from could take its own specifier.
62) over: specifier > without it, does make sense
Over cannot take another specifier
Over could take a complement of its own.
So : p-bar replacement / So : specifier /
completely has to be closer to the head than spec
Completely : expands X-bar into X-bar.

제문ㆍ라라서

? -

(58) He is at odds completely with his friends
(59) He is at odds with his friends completely.
(60) He is so out in some ways of touch.
(61) This dispute dates from before the war.
(62) I have put your books over in the corner.
>> state whether ‘from’ and ‘over’ are speciﬁer or
a head?

(58) He is at odds completely with his friends
(59) He is at odds with his friends completely.
(60) He is so out in some ways of touch.
(61) This dispute dates from before the war.
(62) I have put your books over in the corner.
>> state whether ‘from’ and ‘over’ are speciﬁer or
a head?

Transformational grammar chapter 5 other phrases 복습 테스트

(1) Read the text and follow the direction.

In sentences such as the (a) examples below, the bracketed PP is
an ‘internal’ postmodiﬁer, whereas in the corresponding (b) example
it is an ‘external’ one.
(1)

We can interpret ‘internal’ as designating a complement internal to
the a)______ containing the head b)____, and ‘external as
designating an adjunct external to the a)_______ containing the
head b)______.
(2)

Ʃ

Both (a) and (b) above are ambiguous since the prepositional phrase
‘on the boat’ and the Noun phrase ‘last night’ could both be
internal and external postmodiﬁers.

Fill in one appropriate word for each blank and explain the
ambiguity of the two sentences 2(a) and 2(b). Then, state whether
the underlined NP is internal or external in each sentence.

The boat was decided on after lengthy deliberation.
Last night couldn’t be explained by everyone.

(2) Read the text and follow the direction.

 Consider the following contrasts:

⑲

(cid:8796)

㎡

s
(Supported by the respective structure)

s

Choose all and only ungrammatical sentences and explain why.

A) My wife will show me a bracelet, and my brother will do so a ring.
B) My sister will work at the ofﬁce down the street, and my brother
will do so next to the bank.
C) Lily will sell the book at the park, and Tom will do so at the market.
D) Sam will ask the man about the issue, and Sally will do so as well.

4

(3) Read the passage and ﬁll in each blank.

⑪

2

a.

There are a range of other determiners.

B

(cid:8799)

㉝

∞

mm

M

견

㎡

Δ

pmom

ohm

jmop

Mm

⑲

Λ

moo

Ur

?

θ

Considering the sentences in (3),(4), and (5), we can conclude that ‘Very’ modiﬁes
a)_______ but not b)_______. ‘More or less’ modiﬁes both a)_______ and b)_______
and lastly, ‘much’ modiﬁes b)_______ but not a)__________.

(4) Read the passage and follow the directions.

_

 Consider the sentence below.

 1) a) He was completely in the wrong.
    b) He was in the wrong completely.

  We can conclude from the sentences above that ‘completely’ is an adverb
  that expands p-bar into p-bar. This means that ‘completely’ has to occur
  closer to the head than the determiner.

 2) a) He was so completely in the wrong.
    b) *He was completely so in the wrong.

 Now let’s look at another sentence.

 3) He is less at odds with his friends now.

 (4) He is completely at odds with his friends.

 State whether the sentence in (4)  is ambiguous or not and explain with a
tree structure.

↑

Transformational grammar answers
(1) a) V-bar, b) V / The underlined Np in both sentences are
internal.
(2)

A )

VP

B)

)

"

VP
"

¤

¤

V
snow ㅱ Δ

NP

me

a pracelet

rorte

↑

at

n.

the

'

"

PP

i

"

ㅱ

about

at the

V
V ㅱ partsask
'e ⑪

t암ook

ND

the

issue

the man

Ni 망
↓
office

down the

street

In (A), ‘do so’ can only replace the whole string [ show me a
bracelet ], but only [ show me ] is replaced. For (B), ‘do so’ is a
Pro-V-bar, therefore can only replace the whole string [ work
at the ofﬁce down the street ].

(3) a) A-bar b) N-bar

(4) The sentence is ambiguous since the adverb ‘completely’
could either modify ‘at odds’ or ‘ at odds with his friends’.

①

②

⑬

PR

p

1 ∞
"

Adup

≈ l

completely

pp
Δ

witn nis

friends

1

p
^

AdvB

|

'

p

completelyPt s

" ⑫

with nisfriends

}

at

nP

dds

Finite and nonﬁnite 구분하기

(1) Inﬁnitive, gerund, perfect, passive
participle

Transformational grammar chapter 6 복습 테스트

(1) Read the passage and follow the directions.

Ellipsis known as gapping is subject to an interesting restriction.
Consider the sentences below.

Why is it that gapping in (a) is grammatical but not in (b) ? How would we
account for this puzzling contrast? One possible answer would be posit
that gapping takes place only when S constituents are conjoined, not when
S-bar constituents are conjoined.

Choose all and only ungrammatical sentences and explain why.

(A) We knew for certain the president approved the project and
that congress the opinion.
(B) I wonder if Mary hates vegetables and Tom meat.
(C) I wonder if Mary hates vegetables and if Tom meat.
(D) John wondered whether Sam got a prize and Sally a degree.

Sentence (A) and (C) is ungrammatical. In both of the sentences, two S-bar
categories are conjoined and gapping is not allowed here.

X

X

X

O

O

O

O

O

(2) Discuss the grammaticality of the sentences below.
O - grammatical X - ungrammatical
- Bill thinks that John might kill himself.
- The president is not sure whether to vote for himself.
- I believed the president to be right.
- I believe for the president to be right.
- They reported for the patient to be in great pain.
- I consider for my students to be conscientious.
- I believe him to be right.
- He is believed to be right.
X
- That was never intended for to happen.
- I’ve never known the fur to ﬂy so quickly.
- I consider the shit to have hit the fan.
O
- John believed Mary himself to be innocent.
- We put the president in our car himself.
- I looked behind the president for guards himself.
- The president is coming himself.
- I don’t want you near myself.
- John kissed not many models.
- Not many gorillas have learned to dance.
- I didn’t consider that it suitable.
- Let there be light.
- Let be there light.
- I consider PRO intelligent.

×

ㅇ
X

O

ㅇ

O

X

X

X

X

X

비밀이 누설되다

- State the meaning of the idioms below
1) The cat is out of the bag
2) The coast is clear.
3) The shit hit the fan.
4) The fur will ﬂy.
5) The pot calls the kettle black.

들킬 위험이없다.
궁지에빠지다 .

큰 소동이 일어날 것이다

냄비가 주전자보고 검다 한다

(3) Read the passage and ﬁll in each blank with the most
appropriate words.

Let’s look at sentences below.

1) a) John persuaded Mary to resign.
   b) I believe the president to be right.

At ﬁrst sight, the two sentences might seem to have the same structure.
However, there are a variety of reasons for thinking that the two sentence
structures are different.

For one thing, we cannot replace Mary in 1(a) by an appropriate
a)_____________.

subject expressions

This strongly suggests that Mary isn’t the subordinate clause subject but rather
object
the main clause b)________. The structure could be restated as:
2) a) John persuaded Mary [ PRO to resign ].

Moreover, it seems likely that the bracketed complement in 2(a) has the status
of c) ______.

S-bar

This could be supported by observations below.

) S = TP

( a )

5- bar = CP

~

1

1) It would be silly for me to hate syntax.
2) It would be silly for him to hates syntax.
3) It would have been silly for you to hated
Syntax.
4) I know that you hate syntax.
5) I’d never known you hate anything as
much as syntax.
6) I know that John hate syntax.
7) I’ve never known him hates anything as
much as syntax.
8) I knew that John hate syntax.
9) I’d never known him hated anything as
much as syntax.
10) I’ve never known you will hate anything
as much as syntax.
11) I wonder whether John likes ﬁsh and
Mary meat.
12) I wonder whether John likes ﬁsh and
whether Mary meat.
13) Bill thinks that John might kill himself.
14) The president is not sure whether to
vote for himself.
15) I believe the president to be right.
16) I’ve never known the Prime minister to
lie.
17) They reported the patient to be in a
great pain.
18) I consider my students to be
conscientious.
19) I believe for the president to be right.
20) I’ve never known for the Prime minister
to lie.
21) They reported for the patient to be in
great pain.
22) I consider for my students to be
conscientious.
23) I believe him to be right.
24) I’ve never known her to lie.
25) They reported him to be in great pain.
26) I consider them to be conscientious.

27) The president believes himself to be
right.
28) I’ve never known myself to lie.
29) They reported themselves to be in
great pain.
30) My students consider themselves to
be conscientious.
31) We never intended that to happen.
32) That was never intended to happen.
33) We never intended for that to
happen.
34) That was never intended for to
happen.
35) The chips are down.
36) The cat is out of the bag.
37) The shit hit the fan.
38 The fur will ﬂy.
39) I believe the chips to be down.
40) I have never known the fur to ﬂy
so quickly.
41) They reported the cat to be out of
the bag.
42) I consider the shit to have hit the
fan.
43) I believe it to unlikely that he’ll
come.
44) I’ve never known it to snow in
summer.
45) They reported it to be likely that
he’d resign.
46) I consider it to be time to leave.
47) We persuaded the shit to hit the
fan.
48) We persuaded Mary to resign.
49) The president believes to be right.
50) I’ve never known to lie.
51) They reported to be in great pain.
52) I consider to be conscientious.
53) I wonder whether to stay at home.

54) John persuaded Mary ﬁrmly to resign.
55) John believed Mary ﬁrmly to be
innocent.
56) John persuaded Mary himself to
resign.
57) John believes Mary himself to be
innocent.

58) John persuaded Mary to resign.
59) John believed Mary to be innocent.
60) John persuaded Mary that she should
resign.
61) John believed that Mary was innocent.
62) I believed a specialist to have
examined John.
63) I believed John to have been
examined by a specialist.
64) I persuaded a specialist to examine
John.
65) I persuaded John to be examined by
a specialist.
66) John promised Mary to resign.
67) John promised Mary that he would
resign.

transformationaㅣ grammar chapter 6

다음 두 문장이 finite인지 nonfinite인지 3가지 과정을 통해 증명해보자!

1(a) I know that [you hate Syntax]
1(b) I'd never known [you hate anything as much as Syntax]

힌트
1) 하위절의 주어 자리에 다른 주어를 넣어보기
2) 하위절의 동사를 다른 동사로 대체해보기
3) modaㅣ auxiㅣiaries를 넣어 확인하기

주어 자리에 3인칭 단수형을 쓰는 주어를 넣어보고 말이 되면 finite 그렇지 않으면 nonfinite이 되는 것
Third person singuㅣar subject ㅣike John.

Reㅣevant verb-form can be repㅣaced by a past tense verb-form carrying the overt past tense infㅣection -(e)d.

modaㅣ auxiㅣaries의 위치 : 원래부터 T 자리 ( to 도 )
finite aspectuaㅣ auxiㅣaries have and be : VP의 spec자리에 있다가 T가 비면 이동

modaㅣ이 들어갈 수 있는 거면 finite 아니면 nonfinite

Chapter 6 Clauses
    임용 포인트
∅
- ﬁnite and nonﬁnite distinguish
- Exceptional case marking clauses
+ PRO
- Small clauses

Modal auxiliary & to : 원래부터 T자리
Finite Aspectual auxiliary: have & be
>> VP의 head자리에서 T자리가 비면 이동

1. Finite and Nonﬁnite 구별하기
Nonﬁnite - gerund forms
          - perfect, passive participle
          - uninﬂected inﬁnitive form

2. Finite clause: Two types
Indicative & Subjunctive
- Indicative : variable
- Subjunctive: Invariable

But how do we know that the two
are different? >> Couple of tests

* First test : Change the
subordinate clause subject to
‘John’. If present tense -(e)s
inﬂection is added, then the clause
is said to be ﬁnite clause.

*Second test : See whether the
sentence could carry an overt past
tense inﬂection -(e)d.

* Third test : Add modal auxiliary
>> If it works, it’s a ﬁnite clause

In subjunctive clause, there is no
overt tense >> still ﬁnite clause

- Both indicative and subjunctive
clause is always assigned nominative
case

Summarize: Two types of ﬁnite
( indicative and subjunctive)
Three types of non ﬁnite
( gerund, inﬁnitive, participle )

3. Clause constituent
- complementizer: that, for, whether

Clause structure:
Before ) S >> C NP M VP
Now ) S’ >> C S
       S >> NP M VP
Any reason for this structure ?

S-bar has a complement of C and
S. But there is one problem. Not all
complement clauses do in fact
contain overt complementisers.

Is this S-bar or S?

Checking: Coordination facts
We ﬁnd that a complementiserless
clause can be conjoined with the
one containing an overt
complementiser.

Test 1 : Shared constituent
coordination

>> YES! It is a S-bar level clause
Main clauses = S-bar

Only constituents can be a ‘shared
sequence’.

If there are overt and covert
complementisers, how do we know
they are S-bar not S?

Test 2 : Gapping 2
ONLY S constituents are conjoined,
gapping takes place. Not when S-
bar constituents are conjoined.

1. Inverted auxiliary takes the
same position as complementisers.
>> Clauses introduced by
complementisers cannot contain
inverted auxiliaries.

도차 o

- 도치차 X

→ ㆍ허 ) o

Inverted auxiliaries occupy the
pre-subject C position.

Inverted 하지 않은 auxiliary문장도
S-bar status.
Ex) You sister could go to College,
but would she get a degree?

Modals and ‘to’ cannot co-occur.
VP ellipsis is possible after modals,
but not after lexical verbs.

4. Complementisers
>> that, for, whether, if
That ( + ﬁnite, - interrogative )
For ( - ﬁnite, -interrogative )
Whether ( +/- ﬁnite/ + inter)
If ( + ﬁnite, +interrogative )

5. The support of empty subjects

- The president isn’t sure
A) Whether he should approve the
project.
B) Whether to approve the project.

Exceptional clause
-보통은 subject-object raising V
( There are two complement clause
which do not have S-bar status :
Exceptional clause & Small clause )

>> PRO B에 있다.

1. Status of S not S-bar
Cannot be introduced by
complementisers.

2. Their subjects in some respect
behave more like objects of the
preceding verbs than subjects of
the following verb

They are subjects of the
subordinate clause.
-Subject expressions.
-Pleonastic pronouns ( it. There )

Vs Control sentences
X:John persuaded [Mary to resign].
O:John persuaded Mary [to resign].

Small clauses [ NP XP ]
ECM clauses [ NP I VP ]- lack C

Post verbal NP in structures of
the form V[NP XP] is a clausal
subject.
A) Floating emphatic reﬂexives.

Small clause is similar to ECM that
they are assigned objective case,
permit main clause passivisation and
reﬂexivisation, do not permit PRO
subjects.

>> Reﬂexives require a
clausemate antecedent ( myself
>> antecedent >> I )

Transformational grammar chapter 7

Subcategorization: complement에만
Selectional restriction: 주어 + comp

(1) await ( 타 ) / wait ( 자 )
(2) John ran ( up the hill ). PP complement
    John rang up ( his sister )

Now, let’s look at the verbs we saw
in chapter 6. Given the fact that
items select on their arguments.
( What is argument : 술어가 의미를 완
성하기 위해 필요로 하는 요소 )

>>Mary is the main clause object in
(a) but complement clause subject in
(b). Mary is the argument of
persuade in (a) but not the
argument of consider in (b).

>> Selectional restriction holds
between an item and an argument.
So we know that there is a clear
selection restriction holding between
persuaded and Mary but none
between consider and Mary.

(2) Selectional restriction
>> subcategorization: syntax
>> Selectional restriction : semantic

Convince subcategorizes a NP complement.
Rather there are selection restrictions.
The NP complement has to denote some
rational entity.
Difference: Although items do not
subcategories their subjects, they do
select their choice of subject.

Persuade : 3 arguments
< What about to tell ? Where does
this give selectional restriction to?
PRO >
Consider : 2 arguments
Seem : 1 arguments

The verb ‘ persuade’ needs a human,
rational entity : persuade의 목적어

murder: Needs a human subject and
human object.

(3) Thematic relations
( Thematic role = theta-role =

θ role )

IN BOTH (a) and (b) the thematic role of
‘ball’ is the same. Theme/ Although they
have different grammatical role, their
theta role is the same.

' 주어 ' 에 올 수 있다 .

>> (a) : The vase : instrument
   (b) : The vase : theme

심리적 상태를 겪어야 한다 .

Selectional restriction is also different.

Theta role always has an argument.
Theta role : For Mary or Mary ?
>> 의미역은 논항이 받는다.

?? 동사가 의미역 할당? VP가 의미역 할당?
>> VP가 의미역을 할당해야 한다.
>> shattered the glass까지가 들어가야 앞에
the vase에 instrument라는 theta-role을 줄
수 있게 때문이다. 하지만 이러한 설명은 예외니
지문에서 주어진 대로 풀 것 !

A) John gave Mary the book.

>> adverbials 분포

Agent가 있어야 한다. 심리적 상태를 겪는 개
체여야 한다.
personally, deliberately, in order to, on
purpose, by someone

☆

답안 작성 :  john bears the theta role
‘ agent’ to the verbal predicate ‘gave’.
Mary bears the role ‘goal’ and the book
bears the roel ‘ theme’.

>> If there aren’t any mentioning of
thematic roles >> Do not mention in the
answers.

타동사의 counterpart가 있는 자동사 =
ergative
Rolled >> ergative
( Case: Surface-s , Theta role : Deep-s )

Theta criterion: theta role은 논항에 하나
씩 할당한다.

>> John and a hammer : broke가 두개의
item에 theta-role 할당

Thematic hierarchy : Agent >.... > Theme

Try: have its subject as an agent
Seem : do not assign agent role to its
subject.

Since seem has a nonthematic subject, that
subject is not an argument of seem in the
relevant technical sense.

σ

②

,

Transformational grammar chapter 7 복습 테스트

(1). Fill in the blank with the most appropriate words.

Verbs ‘try’ and ‘seem’ differ. ‘Try’ assigns a thematic role of ‘agent’
to it’s subject, whereas the verb ‘seem’ do not assign agent role to
it’s subject. This could be seen from the sentences below.

비

㎡

We could see that there are no selectional restrictions holding
between seem and its subject. This is because seem takes a
a)___________ subject. Suppose that we deﬁne an argument of
predicate as an expression which is theta-marked. We could
conclude that the subject is not b)____________ of seem.

(2) Read the text and follow the direction.

㎡

㎡

뻑

없

2

③

Clearly, there are two constraints on theta-marking which rules out
inadmissible structures such as (2) and (4). The restriction is stated
below.

o㎥

a)

ㅲ

→ Nextpage

Choose all and only ungrammatical sentences. State the constraint the
sentences that violates the theta criterion and mention whether it is (a) or
(b) that it is violating.

1) John and a hammer broke the window.
2) A cat and a cutter knife scratched Tom.
3) The book read the student.
4) John gave a book to Lily.

Transformational grammar chapter 7 복습 테스트

(1). Non thematic/ an argument
(2) 1,2,3
1- (a)
2- (a)
3- (b)

 1) In this sentence, John and a hammer is assigned a theta-role of
an agent and an instrument, respectively. This sentence is
ungrammatical because that the argument subject should bear only
one thete-role.

 2) In this sentence, the cat and the knife is assigned a theta-role
of an agent and an instrument, respectively. This sentence is
ungrammatical because that the argument subject should bear only
one thete-role.

 3) In this sentence, "The book" is marked as the subject (theta-
role: agent) and "the student" is marked as the direct object
(theta-role: patient) of the verb "read." However, the verb "read"
assigns the theta-role of theme to the direct object and the theta-
role of experiencer to the subject. This sentence is ungrammatical
because the same theta-role, "theme," is assigned to both "The
book" and "the student," violating the principle that each theta-role
should be assigned to one and only one argument.

Transformational grammar chapter 8 (1) 복습 테스트

(1) State the meaning of each object idiom chunks.
- Keep tabs on :
- Pay heed to :
- Pay lip service to :
- Pay homage to :
- Grasp the nettle
- Bite the bullet:
- Take note of :
- take advantage of :

(2) State whether each sentence is grammatical or not.
A) She wondered whether would he come back again.
B) Whether it be in this kingdom or the next.
C) Be it in this kingdom or the next.
D) Whether be it in this kingdom or the next.
E) If should I die.
F) Have you ﬁnished your assignment?

(3) State the process of the sentence transforming from (A) to (B).
(A) He have a car.
(B) Has he a car?

(4) Read the passage and follow the direction.

Consider the sentences below:
A) John [I e] [VP annoy me ].
B) John annoys me.

⑧

The two solutions are afﬁx movement and V movement.

s

English has a class of S-adverbials which are restricted to
occurring as immediate constituents of S.

그

2

Although 1(b) is ungrammatical, 2(a) is a grammatical sentence.
State the name of the movement which is applied in the
process of making the sentence 2(a) and explain why it is
grammatical.

(5) Read the passage and follow the direction.

∅

⑧영
We have another restriction to have contraction. T

p

s

Choose all and only ungrammatical sentences and explain why.
A) I could have been playing tennis and you’ve been playing
football.
B) Whom’ve you seen?
C) They may’ve left already.
D) We’ve done a better job compared to last week.

(6) Read the passage and follow the direction.

There is an important principle that needs to be considered in passive sentences:
adjacency principle.

∅

㎡

We could say that only an NP immediately a)_______ to a verb can be passivized.
Now, consider the sentences below. Although the passivized NP does not seem to be
immediately a)_______ to its verb, it could be separated since ‘agree on’ and ‘ask
for’ in (3) is a b)_____________.

B

The preposition can be separated from the verb in relative clause structures:

㉞

Although b)____________ allow V and P to be separated by other material in
their active form, they do not do so in their passive form.

빽

(cid:8805)

In prepositional passives, the V and P must together form a single cohesive unit.

㎡

(cid:8805)

㎡

However, there is a restriction for reanalysis. Only the head P of a complement PP
can undergo reanalysis, not the head P of an adjunct PP.

Choose all and only ungrammatical sentences and explain why.

A) She was stared straight at by everyone.
B) He talked about the disarmament to the president.
C) The third round was lost in by Rocky.
D) Many people turned right against her.

1) 예의 주시하다
     ~에 주의하다
     ~에게 입에 발린 말을 하다
    ~에 경의를 표하다
    곤경에 선뜻 맞서다
    이를 악물고 하다
     ~에 주의하다/ 알아채다
    ~을 이용하다
2) X/ O/ O/ X/ X/ O
3) He have a car. ( V-I movement)
   Has he a car. ( T-C movement)
   Has he a car?
(4) V movement/ ‘ have ’ has moved from its original position inside VP to I
position allowing S-adverbial like ‘probably’ to occupy between I( has ) and
VP( been working ).
(5) B) and c) is ungrammatical. In (B), ‘whom’ is a pronoun but do not end in a
vowel or a diphthong. In (c), ‘ may’ does end in a vowel but is not a pronoun.
(6) (A) and (C) is ungrammatical. In passive form, preposition verbs do not
allow the preposition to be modiﬁed by a preceding speciﬁer such as
‘straight’. In (C), the preposition ‘in’ is a head of an adjunct PP which doesn’t
allow a reanalysis and therefore, do not permit NP movement.

정리 :
1. 동사에 바로 인접한 명사만 수동태 가능
2. 근데 이상하게 바로 인접해 있지 않는데 어떻게 가능?
>> 아 얘네는 prepositional verb라 원래 v+ ( p + NP ) 구조라 NP가 분리 가
능
3. 근데 얘네도 수동화 일때는 V+ adverb+ P이게 안됨.
>> 왜 그러냐면 수동화 되면 reanalysis를 하기에 V+P가 마치 하나의 성분처
럼 쓰여
4. 근데 이렇게 하나의 성분처럼 쓰이는 reanalysis의 조건이 있는데 P가
complement PP의 head여야 해/ adjunct PP의 head면 땡이야.
Adjunct이면 앞에 있는 V+P가 reanalysis으로 하나의 성분이 되질 못하니깐
NP가 verb에 immediately 인접한게 아니어서 np movement가 불가능해.

Transformational  grammar  chapter  8  (2)  복습  테스트

(1)  Read  the  passage  and  follow  the  direction.

Explain  how  sentence  (4)  is  grammatical  based  on  the  text.

(2)  Read  the  passage  and  follow  the  direction.

State  what  analysis  to  apply  for  the  sentence‘There  seems  to

have  been/*seen  an  accident,’and  explain  your  reason.

(3) Fill in each blank with the most appropriate words and explain why sentence (2)
can have ‘the weather’ as it’s subject.

nA)

@B

껭

빤

(4) Analyze the movement of the three sentences below like the example sentence.

p

ㄻ

n

⑧

⑱

s

뼉

∅

(1)  The  NP(John)  originates  as  the  underlying  subject  of  the

subordinate  clause  in  the  deep  structure  and  is  subsequently

raised  by  the  NP  movement  to  become  the  superficial  subject

of  the  main  clause.  NP(John)  is  considered  in  the  same  S  as

the  reflexive  himself,  which  follows  the  rule  that  reflexive

should  have  a  clause  mate  antecedent.

(2)  Raising  analysis  /  Pleonastic  there  must  occur  as  the

subject  of  an  existential  predicate.  The  contrast  between  seen

and  been  can  be  accounted  for  the  fact  that  been  is  a  verb  of

existence,  whereas  seen  is  not.  Moreover,  pleonastic  there  is

non-referential,  therefore  cannot  controll  PRO.

(3) control, experiencer/ Raising predicate like seem do not assign any
thematic role to its subject and hence does not selectionally constrain the
choice of subject.

) . ciNPe ) got [sc ENPe thrown Jonn into jail ?

a .

2 . eNpe ) gotess [ John thrown intojails

3 . cNP Sohnz got

ese - thrown into jail ) .

b

(

1. cNpe ] needs esc [ NPe lookingat my toes by ~ □
2 .eNpes needs[scctoesookingat by ~ >
3 . cNp ToesI needs [ sc -ookingat by 2 >

1 . cNPes could do with Ise [ NPe checking over ocerburglar -alarom bysm 3
2 . enpes could do with esc cowr burglar alam checking over by

someone ]

3

. [NPour burglar - alam ] 2

트포 강의 필기

챕터 2 : phrase는 하나의 성분이다 ( The scope of negation / constituency test )

1) 중의성 : mistrust wounds ―> a) mistrust (n) wounds (v) : 불신이 상처를 만든다
                                                   b) mistrust (v) wounds (n) : 상처를 믿지 마라
If we take it to be a Noun + Verb sequence parallel to ‘Suspicion wounds,’ or a Verb + Noun sequence
parallel to ‘Mistrust sores’.  ( page 57 )

2) The adverb ‘very’ cannot occur before verbs ( page 61)
+ ‘much’ 가 동사를 수식할 수 있다  Ex ) I have seen suspects much / *very abused by the police.
- He is very slow ( very + adjective )
- He walks very slowly ( very + adverb )
- *Very girls love to have fun ( very + noun )
- * He very adores her ( very + verb )
- * It happened very after the party ( very + preposition )

3) Phrasal categories : nonsyntactic evidence ( page 64)

The president could not ratify the treaty. >> ambiguous / 해결 방법
- It would not be possible for the president to ratify the treaty.
- It would be possible for the president not to ratify the treaty.

In the first, ‘not’ might be argued to have within its scope the modal could, while in the second sentence,
‘not’ might be argued to have scope over the verb phrase ‘ratify the treaty’.

해결 방법 :
1) could / not 축약    2) simply 넣기    3) pseudo cleft sentence

1) 첫번째 : The president couldn’t ratify the treaty. ( 축약 가능 )
    두번째 : The president could not ratify the treaty. ( 축약 불가능 )

2) 첫번째 : The president could not simply ratify the treaty.
    두번째 : The president could simply not ratify the treaty.

3) 첫번째: What the president could not do was ratify the treaty.
     두번째 : What the president could do was not ratify the treaty.

4) Constituency tests

A) Movement ( preposing , postposing )

Preposing
- nonconstituent sequence ( 성분이 아닌거 여러개 나열 ) / A nonconstituent sequence cannot be preposed.
Ex) John rang up his mother.
>>  * Up his mother, John rang.
1) ( 이 문장이 비문인 이유는 ‘Up his mother’ 가 nonconstituent sequence여서.
2) The particle ‘up’ forms a constituent together with the verb, no with the immediately following noun
phrase.

Postposing
- He explained to her [ all the terrible problems that he had encountered ].
원래는 비문인 문장인데 ( explain 바로 뒤에 PP가 오면 안됨 ) 지금 이 학자는 end weight principle을 더 중요하게 생각
하는 학자임

Only phrasal constituents can undergo (preposing or postposing) >> ( moving )

B) Sentence fragment
: Only phrasal constituents can serve as sentence-fragment
- Where did he go ? Up the hill
- Who were you ringing up ? Up my elder sister

C) Insertion of adverb : 부사 사이 사이 앞은 다 성분
Certainly - sentence adverb
Completely - vp adverb

s - node 로 그리기

σ

T / K 가 orc(er !

S-adverb와 VP adverb가 같이 나올
시 뭐가 선행하는지는 나오지 않았다.
( 트포 exercise )

여기가 하나의 성분 :

D) Coordination ( 멘토 coordination 다시보기 ) - ordinary coordination / shared constituent ordination
Only constituents can be conjoined ; nonconstituent sequences cannot be conjoined.
Category 안에 form과 function이 있다. ( form : NP, PP, VP etc ) ( function : complement adjunct etc )

1) Ordinary coordination
Ex) Good linguists and philosophers are rare. ( N and N) 이 conjoin된것 ! 아무것도 안보고 바로 NP and NP라
고 쓰면 안됨!
2) Shared constituent ordination
Ex) * John rang and Harry picked up Mary’s sister.

E) Pronominalisation ( proform )
- What do you think of [the guy who wrote that unbelievably boring book on Tranformational Grammar]?
- I can’t stand him. ( Pro-NP )

- Have you ever been to Paris ?
- No, I have never been there. ( PRO-PP)

- If John can [ VP speak French fluently ] - which we all know he can - why is he shy with French girls ?
( PRO-VP )
- John might [ VP go home ], and so might Bill ( PRO-VP )

- Many people consider John [ AP extremely rude ], but I’ve never found him so. ( PRO-AP)

Q) ‘So’가 어디를 대체하는지 나올 수 있다.

F) Ellipsis ( = Deletion )
- VP ellipsis 주의 ) 생략 후 조동사 ( aux )가 무조건 남아야 한다.

s>

얘가 VP의 식구인지 아닌지는 지문 따라 가기 ( 여기서는 식구가 아니다 )

- He may come home early, but then again he may not come home early.
이 책에서는 이걸 VP ellipsis라고 보네 >> 그럼 이건 not이 VP의 spec이 아니라 VP의 식구가 아니라는 것을 알려준다.
하지만!! Bassart에서는 not을 VP의 spec으로 보기에 해당 위의 문장은 VP deletion이 아닌 v-bar deletion으로 본다.
지문 보고 쓰기

Constituency test
(1) Replacement ( 다른 같은 성분으로 대체해서 말이 되면 그건 성분이다 )
- Drunks would get [off the bus / on the bus ]
- * Drunks would put [ off the customers / on the customers ].

(2) Movement
(3) Sentence fragment
(4) Adverb insertion ( 부사는 성분과 성분 사이에 )
(5) Coordination test ( shared constituent coordination / Ordinary coordination )
(6) Gapping ( 성분이면 같이 생략 가능 )
* Drunks would put off the customers, and junkies would put off the waitresses. > put off가 하나의 성분
Drunks would put off the customers, and junkies would put off the waitresses.
(7) Pronominalisation ( old info / 구동사 ) Ex) Put them off/ * put off them.

(171) argued [ about every point ] [with the tax-man]. >> 둘다 complement ( free order complement )
         Put [ NP ] [ PP ] >> ( O ) / Put [ PP ] [ NP ] >> (X) >> fixed order
complement가 두개가 와도 하나는 fixed order, 다른 하나는 free order일 수 있다.

( page 352)
I never argued about ~ with~
I talked about ~ to~
He climbed into ~ through~

전부 complement인데 free order인 친구들

John argued [ every point ] [ with the tax-man ].
* John argued [ with the tax-man ] [ every point ] >> strict adjacency principle 때문에 비문

(173)(174) strict adjacency principle
* They loaded on the cart [ hay ].
* They loaded with hay [ the cart ].

(175) Sentence fragment vs VP ellipsis
Sentence fragment : 지금 눈에 보이는 그 부분이 ( NP이던 PP이던 ) 하나의 성분인것이고
VP ellipsis : 눈에 보이는 부분이 아니라 생략된 부분이 하나의 성분

Exercise 3
(1) Mary might seem very keen on the boat.
- [ seem keen on ] the boat  : 배에 대해서 예민하다
- [ seem keen ] [ on the boat ] : 배 위에서 예민해보인다.

(2) The police will shoot terrorists with rifles.
- terrorist - rifles
- the police - rifles

(3) John will run down the new road.
- run [ down the new road ] - 새로운 길을 뛰어 내려가다 - 전치사적 동사
- [ run down ] the new road - 새로운 것을 찾다 - 구동사

(4) They may meet with skepticism
- with skepticism
- adjunct : 그들은 만날 것이다 회의감을 가지고
- meet with / skepticism : 그들은 회의감을 마주칠 것이다.

Exercise (5)

2(a) - entirely ( vp adverb ) / naturally ( sentence adverb ) /반대로 나올 수 없다. no crossing branch

보충 프린트
- It be focus ( new ) + that who ( old )
- What + ( old ) be + (new )

Cleft sentence : focus position에 오는 것이 완전한 constituent 여야 하고 두개의 constituent가 오면 큰일난다
>> 따라서 왜 문장이 비문인지 잘 봐야 한다.

챕터 3        임용 포인트 1. C- command / NPI
                 2. C- command / anaphor
                 3. Adjectives vs Determiners

Print 1. Vp-deletion. V-deletion
        2. Gerund
        3. Participial

