i

e@

l
t
i
T

Study

트포 챕터 2  Scope of negation / constituency test/ Ambiguity

Constituency Test

Genitive inflection
: noun phrase
Inflection/
noun inflection

Preposing

only phrasal
categories can
undergo preposing

Each point in the tree is
called a node, and each node
represents a constituent
( a syntactic unit )

Postposing :

The genitive inflection ‘s must clearly attach to the end of the whole noun phrase,
Not to the end of the head noun.

,

Adjectival phrase attach X

I can’t stand [ your elder sister ].
[ The kind of behaviour ], I simply will not tolerate. ( NP )
I went to see the new James Bond film yesterday, and [ very
exciting ] it was too.  ( Adj P)
[ Very shortly], he’s going to be leaving for Paris ( adverb
phrase )
[ Down the hill] he ran, as fast as he could ( prepositional
phrase )
[Give in to blackmail ], I never will! ( Verb phrase )
Your elder sister, I can’t stand
Up his mother, John rang.
Up his date, John stood.
Up her phone number, John looked.

rang up )
stoodupl

looked up )

*

*

*

No crossing branch constraint

The team can rely on my support completely, certainly.

Exercise 5 : naturally / entirely 누가 먼저?
naturally - S adverb ( It is natural that ~ )
Entirely - VP adverb
Entirely, naturally ( NO crossing branching constraint )

Sentence fragment
A) Where did he go? Up the hill.
B) Who were you ringing up ? Up my elder sister

go cup the hill J

*

Cring up] ~

Insertion of adverbs

Itiscertain that ~ ( o 7

It is complete that n (X )

5 - node 로 트리 그리기 는

Study

Coordination

John rang up his mother and up his sister

Substitution ( pronoun )

pronominalization

Only constituents can be conjoined, nonconstituent sequences cannot be conjoined.
The ‘up’ in the sentence forms part of the phrasal verb ‘ring up,’ so that the
sequence ‘up his mother’ is not a constituent.

1. A: What do you think of the guy who wrote that unbelievably boring book on
Transformational Grammar?
B: I can’t stand him

Only identical categories can be conjoined
( category : NP, VP, PP ) + function ( complement / adjunct )

John wrote to Mary and to Fred.
John wrote a letter and a postcard.
John wrote a letter and to Fred.
John wrote to Fred and a letter.

*

*

Shared constituent coordination ( right node raising )
a. John walked (and Mary ran) [up the hill]
b. John denied―but Fred admitted―[complicity in the crime]
c. John will, and Mary may, [go to the party]
d. John rang (and Harry picked) up Mary’s sister.
e. John walked up the hill and Mary ran up the hill
f. John rang up Mary’s sister and Harry picked up Mary’s sister

*

In sentence (a), the PP ‘up the hill’ is a constituent of both walked and ran.
In sentence (d), the PP ‘up Mary’s sister’ is not a constituent of ‘rang’ or ‘pick’.
>> The conjunct up goes with the verb ‘rang’ to form the phrasal verb rang up, and in the
second conjunct up goes with the verb picked, forming the phrasal verb picked up.

*

2. What do you think of the him who wrote that unbelievably boring it on
Transformational it?
The pronoun like ‘him’ occur in typical NP position in sentences, we could replace the
whole NP [ the guy who wrote ~ ]

(a) I hope [you will come]
(b) I hope [the pen on the table]
(C) I hope it
>>
Verb like ‘hope’ can take a following S complement, but not a following NP complement.
A) Hope S
B) * Hope + NP
C) * Hope + NP substitution

Study

VP Ellipsis
= Vp deletion

A: John won’t wash the dishes.
B: I bet he will wash the dishes if you’re nice to him.

a. John won’t help me with the dishes, but his brother will help me with the
dishes.
 a. John won’t put the vodka into the drink, but his brother will put the vodka in
the drink.

VP의 spec ( X )

-

a. He may come home early, but then again he may not come home early.
b. Mary wants to close the shop, but I don’t want to close the shop.
c. Fetch me an apple, if you can fetch me an apple.
d. A: Could you have a look at the car?
    B: OK, I will have a look at the car.

S-adverb vs Vp adverb

S-adverb :
1. Speaker’s evaluation of the proposition.
Fortunately, tragically, surprisingly
2. Epistemic comments relating to truth or
probability.
Certainly, obviously, possibly, definitely
3. Place and time expressions

Vp-adverb :
1. Adverbs of manner
Completely, carefully,
quickly, violently,
simply

Testing the Structure - 기출 출제

(a) Drunks would get off the bus.
(b) Drunks would put off the customers.

s- Advern

r

*

(a) Drunks certainly would get off the bus
(b) Drunks would certainly get off the bus
(c) Drunks would get certainly off the bus
*
(d) Drunks would get off certainly the bus
*
(e)Drunks would get off the certainly bus

(a)

s

(b)

s

Vb

내ms 없에는 .어m 애나 Λ
다다 은
getoff'mebus

U WP

*

(a) Drunks certainly would put off the customers
(b) Drunks would certainly put off the customers
(c)Drunks would put certainly off the customers
*
(d)Drunks  would put off certainly the customers
*
(e) Drunks would put off the certainly customers

Replacement
、
[
A) Drunks would get off the bus
                             get on the bus
}
[
]
B) Drunks would put off the customers
×
                             put on the customers

* [

The sequence ‘ off the customers’ is not
a PP and cannot be replaced by a PP like
[ on the customers ]. Put off : phrasal
verb . Get off : prepositional verb

Selection Restriction
(a) Drunks would get off the bus/the train/the table/!the sea/!the wind/!kindness
(b) Drunks would get on the bus/the train/the table/!the sea/!the wind/!kindness
(a) Drunks would put off the customers/the waiters/!dirty clothes/!tattered trousers
(b) Drunks would put on dirty clothes/tattered trousers/!the customers/!the waiters

는
"
"

Verbs like get off and get on select the same range of
complements. By contrast, no such parallelism of selection
restrictions hold for phrasal pairs such as put off and put on.

(e argument (의미와 관련 )

Study

Movement

A) Every afternoon, the big red bus would stop in front of the
village clock, and [off the bus] would get a dear old lady carrying a
shopping bag.
B) The manager suspects that drunks would put off the
customers, and off the customers they certainly would put

A) SPEAKER A: Did he get off the train?
SPEAKER B: No, off the bus
B) SPEAKER A: Would drunks put off the waitresses?
SPEAKER B: No, off the customers

Gapping ( V-deletion )

A) John bought an apple, and Mary bought a pear
B) Could John close the window, and could Mary close the door?
C) Drunks would get off the bus. and junkies would get off the train
D) Drunks would put off the customers, and junkies would put off the
waitresses
E) The trouble with the bus was that drunks would want to get off it
every few miles, to exercise their natural bodily functions
F) What worries me about the customers is whether drunks would put
CG phrasal vers
off them

cold info . new info )

VP-adverb
insertion

A) Drunks would get slowly off the bus
B) Drunks would put completely off the customers

summary

Coordination

Drunks would get [off the bus] and [on the train]
Drunks would put off the customers and off the waitresses
Drunks would get (cid:18705) and junkies would fall (cid:18705) off the bus
Drunks would put (cid:18705) and junkies would also put (cid:18705) off the
customers

Word Order

*

∞
(a) Drunks would put off them
(b) Drunks would put them off

(a) Drunks would put [the customers] off
* ∞
(b) Drunks would get the bus off

 (a) John promised that he will finish the assignment, and [finish
the assignment] he will
 (b) John will [finish the assignment], and so will Mary
(c) John will [finish the assignment] and [hand it in]
(d) Paul won’t [finish the assignment], but John will finish the
assignment - VP deletion 해보기

John will [VP completely finish the assignment]
( b) John will [VP finish the assignment completely]
(c) * John  will [VP finish completely the assignment]

Strict adjacency principle : An Np complement of a verb must
be positioned strictly adjacent to its verb.

Study

free order vs
fixed order

( a) John argued [about every point] with the tax-man
(b) John argued with the tax-man [about every point]
(a) John argued [every point] with the tax-man
(b) * John argued with the tax-man [every point]
>> strict adjacency principle 때문에 비문
(A) I talked about something with someone.
(B) I talked with someone about something.
(A) I climbed into the house through the window
(B) I climbed through the window into the house.

(a) They loaded [hay] on the cart
(b) * They loaded on the cart [hay]
(a) They loaded [the cart] with hay
(b) *They loaded with hay [the cart]

The bracketed expression is an Np complement of the verb loaded  ( hay and
the cart ), and therefore has to be immediately positioned after the verb.
Nothing can intervene between V and its NP object ( strict adjacency
principle )

Sentence fragment는 지금 문
장에서 눈에 보이는 부분이 하나
의 성분인것이고 VP ellipsis는 생
략된 부분이 하나의 성분 ( 조동사
제외하고 생략된 부분 )

sentence fragment 와 VP ellipsis의 차이
VP ellipsis :
 A: John won’t wash the dishes.
B: I bet he will wash the dishes if you’re nice to him.
Sentence fragment :
A) Where did he go? Up the hill.
B) Who were you ringing up ? Up my elder sister

*

Cleft sentence 오답 골라내기

Cleft가 틀린 이유는 지문을 보고! 지문에서 cleft의 focus에는 하나의
constituent만 와야 한다할 수 있고 또는 complete constituent가 와야 한다
고 할 수 있다.
전자 : 틀린 이유를 예 ) 두개의 성분이 와서
후자 : 틀린 이유를 예) 포커스에는 완전한 성분이 오지 않아서

Study Constituency 기출 문제 복습

( 19 . A 9 ) ( 18 . A . | 2) ( 21 . B . s )

S

M

will

ㅱ
Jonn

VP

√

only constithents can be preposed .

ㅱ

" ㅱ at the

meet

His e

castle

②

s

①

S

M

can

Nㅱ

The
people

V

move

VP

Λ

* Pㅱ
wo
thescupture

into the

museam

ㅱ

hepeople

M 낫
r ㅱ

can

see

Thesculp -

from tbe

musewm

답안 작성 :
The underlined part in (1) cannot be a constituent. In (1), the PP ‘into the
museum’ is a complement of the head verb ‘move’ so it cannot be preposed
with the NP ‘the sculpture’ as follows: ‘*The sculpture into the museum, the
people can move’.
The underlined part in (2) can be a constituent. In (2), the PP ‘from the
museum’ is an adjunct of the NP ‘the sculpture’ so this NP can be preposed
together as follows : ‘The sculpture from the museum, the people can see’.

Study

∞ 여기린다 .

←여기에걸린다 moV o

→ + subo

이 여기에 갈린다 .> MOVX

(
σ complement

) + subo

①

'

1 ②

딱 끊어지는건 그대로 구분해주기!!

'

③

①

.

W

Det

√ NPoin a

②②Vp③③ wp
ti게* Y먕 ,
A ;.
youreeipt밤 callths ween
f않,
youngf
mykpovs

N

Δ

application

of sazz

Asia

composers

④

당김 ,

Λ

.

N

Adjp
ㆂ
striking N PI

toner

resemblance

mother

The underlined NP ‘The reviewers of Bill’s new book’ qualifies a constituent in
sentence (2). This could be verified by using substitution as follows : ‘ Call
them in a week’. The underlined N-bar ‘young composters of jazz’ qualifies as
a constituent in sentence (3). This could be verified by using substitution as
follows: ‘ The music festival was crowed with young composers of jazz from
Asia and not the ones from Europe’.

가 ( 힘들게 찾을수 )
!

③

「

①

너무 부족 !

②

)

'

'

now

Explain
적용방법 설명해야 함

시만 구체적으로

Direction 분석 :
1) 밑줄 친 부분이 constituent인걸 모두 고르기
2) 각 constituent의의 syntactic category 밝히기
3) movement and/or substitution이 어떻게 적용되는지

추가로 알아야 할 포인트 !!
1) movement의 종류 : topicalization, VP preposing, though-movement
Heavy-NP shift, Extraposition

2) Substitution의 종류 : Proform substitution( pronominalization XP),
One-substitution( N-bar ) , do-so substitution ( V-bar)

Study

Substitution

"

Complement vs Adjunct인지 구분하기
*The one of poems with a red cover.
Since complements are sisters to X and not X’, they cannot stand next to the
word one. Adjuncts can.

Adjunct

「

poetry book

poetry book = N - bar

∞ - book of poetry

(

Adjunct

,

lecomplement

k

the poetry book

V

e

N - bar 인지

NP인지 파악하해기 !

)

complement Adjunct

Study

2019 . A . 9

δ

Cpmodifying object NP

txtraposition
↓
frepose

Tp

'

' 가

wnoneeds help
L나온NP를 contain

맹수
sohn sip
wontA phrasal constituent
⇒ VPo에 adjoin !!
tun Λ away
Det N

하고 있는 first

'

↓

있냄
riendeep

↑

subject

) obje

. case 만다르기

1) (ii)을 보면 ‘who knew him’ 이란 CP는 (i) 에서 Few people 라는 subject를 modify하고
있음. 일단 지문에서 ‘The extraposed CP can be adjoined to VP or Tp라고 하는 것으로
보아 object- VP였으니까 subject-TP라고 하는게 맞을 것 같은 느낌!
하지만 제대로 확인해봐야 하니까
‘ The extraposed CP is adjoined to the first phrasal constituent containing the
NP out of which it is extraposed’. 따라서 이걸로 who knew him이 TP에 adjoin된다!

TP

영수 ,

Fewpp houldvp →

whoknew Λ
ork NB

him

with Jonn

P

영수 ,
Fewpp boulthp

wnoknew Λ
rork NB

him

with sohn

2) Work with john은 VP이고 who knew him은 TP에 adjoin된다. 따라서
ungrammatical.
>> 어쩌면 첫 문장에서 이미 답이 나왔는지도~

not adjoincd to to

'

worhwitrom "이라고함게

f

답 : The extraposed CP ‘who knew him’ from the subject position is adjoined to
TP. Sentence (iii) is ungrammatical. The clausal modifier CP ‘who knew him’ is
adjoined to TP in (ii) so ‘work with John who knew him’ cannot be one phrasal
constituent and therefore it cannot be preposed.

Direction 분석

1) (ii)의 extraposed CP 가 어디로 adjoin 되냐? >> TP 아니면 VP
2) (iii)이 grammatical 하냐? ( 1 )에서 어디로 adjoin 되냐에 따라 다르겠다

Study

2018 .

A . 12

Coordination
>> same
Grammatical
Category

Ajp

AdVP

TP

NP

CP

양
'수p
망수 '

Cshould

↑ I

, Np

should Δ

Sentence (4) and sentence (5) can be conjoined as in
Sentence (6). Sentence (4) is a CP, containing a
null complementizer. In sentence (5), the auxiliary
is moved from the T position to C, making the
sentence a Cp due to inversion. Sentence (4) and
Sentence (5) are both CPs, the same grammatical
category.

Save ~

Direction 분석
1) (4)와 (5)가 conjoin 할 수 있는지
2) Explain why by Identifying the grammatical category of (4) and (5)

Study

2021 . B. 5

지문 정리 :
1) Only the same phrasal
Category can be conjoined.
2) Only VP, CP can be in the
Focus position of a wh-cleft.

NPor NP

Npor AP

TP

CP

TP

o 아

CP

,

PBO ' 가 있는 문장 =

"

"

Cp

1

'

Sentence (i) is ungrammatical as constituents, VP and CP, which belong to
different phrasal categories are coordinated. Sentence (iii) is grammatical.
The CP ‘ he was insulted’ can be in the focus position of a wh-cleft.

VP

(

1 cP

④ 주의와

전체가 Cp

」

coordination 볼때 꼭

뒤의 문장이 어디에 걸린 건지

JCP

살펴보

~
71p

|

!

④ 주의 4

wh - cleft 는

what

is √ FOCus

position !

Direction 분석 :
1) (i)/ (ii) 중에서 ungrammatical sentence 찾기 << reason
2) (iii)/ (iv) 중에서 grammatical << reason

Study

Ambiguity

notional criteria
보다는
Morphological
And syntactic
Criteria

very 다음에는
•
무조건 adverb or
Adjective !!

Scope of negation
/ ambiguity

1) Lexical ambiguity : Some particular lexical item( = word ) has more than one
meaning. Due to homonymy
Ex ) Ball : - round object used for playing games. - dance
Bank : 강뚝 or 은행
2) Structural ambiguity : Ambiguity which occurs due to the structure of sentence.
Ex) Mistrust wounds
• Noun + verb : suspicion wounds 불신이 상처를 만든다.
•
Verb + noun : Mistrust sores  상처를 믿지 마라
•
Mary looked very hard
1) Adjectival phrase : very severe : 단단하게 굳은
2) Adverbial phrase : very intensely : 열심히. 세게

품사 n &complemnt /Adjunct

G

0 ②
The president could not ratify the treaty.
1) It would not be possible for the president to ratify the treaty.
>> Even if he wanted to, the president could not ratify the treaty because he
does not have the authority to do so. 능력이 없음

Exercise 3

(1) Mary might seem very keen on the boat.

(2) The police will shoot terrorists with rifles.

(3) John will run down the new road.

(4) They may meet with skepticism

(1) Mary might seem very keen on the boat.
- [ seem keen on ] the boat  : 배에 대해서 예민하다
- [ seem keen ] [ on the boat ] : 배 위에서 예민해보인다.

(2) The police will shoot terrorists with rifles.
- terrorist - rifles
- the police - rifles

2) It would be possible for the president not to ratify the treaty.
>> If he really wanted to make it clear that he isn’t interested in disarmament,
the president could not ratify the treaty. 의지가 없음.

(3) John will run down the new road.
- run [ down the new road ] - 새로운 길을 뛰어 내려가다 - 전치사적 동사
- [ run down ] the new road - 새로운 것을 찾다 - 구동사

(4) They may meet with skepticism
- with skepticism
- adjunct : 그들은 만날 것이다 회의감을 가지고
- meet with / skepticism : 그들은 회의감을 마주칠 것이다

Other ways to distinguish

→ cout 경우위

Study

타 단권화 참고

complement
= 언어

Adjonct

= 국적

Study

Ambiguity through coordination ( segregatory and combinatory )

Ambiguous 없앤 sentence
1. John, Peter, and Robert play football, basketball, and baseball
respectively. (= John plays football, Peter plays basketball, and Robert
plays baseball.)

2. Thomas Arnold and his son Matthew were respectively the greatest
educator and the greatest critic of the Victorian age.
(= Thomas Arnold was the greatest educator of the Victorian age, and
his son Matthew was the greatest critic of the Victorian age.)

Coordination with noun heads
When heads are coordinated, the usual interpretation is that the
determiner, premodiﬁer, and postmodiﬁer apply to each of the conjoins:

his wife and child (= his wife and his child)
old men and women (= old men and old women)
some cows and pigs from our farm
(= some cows from our farm and some pigs from our farm)
the boys and girls staying at the hostel
(= the boys staying at the hostel and the girls staying at the hostel)

It is also possible to interpret some of these phrases as coordinated
noun phrases:
old men and women (= women and old men)
some cows and pigs from our farm (= pigs from our farm and some
cows)

연결되어 있는 애들이 너무 다른 뜻 : segregatory 해석만 가능하다

old and new furniture (= old furniture and new furniture)
workers from France and from Italy (= workers from France and workers
from Italy)

combinatory meaning is possible if the head is a singular count noun:
a dishonest and lazy student (= a student who is both dishonest and
lazy)
a book on reptiles and amphibians

( Ambiguous sentences ) - combinatory or segregatory
John and Mary won a prize.
John and Mary didn’t win a prize.
Jill and Ben visited their uncles
old and valuable books
(= books that are old and valuable or old books and valuable books)
buses for the Houses of Parliament and for Victoria Station (either the
same bus or buses go to both places or a different bus or buses go to
each place)

Study

Ambiguity 기출

( 22 . A . ) ( 20. A . 6 )지문확장] structure + lexical 모두 주고 → 물중해만 고르라고 할수 ☆

toun - with

spirit

rode - from the

town

rode . with
spirit

horse - from the

town

rode - with spirit
horse - from the town

town - with spirit

rode - from the town

옆에섞어(cid:8802)

town - with
spirit
horse - from

the
town

norse -

with
spirit

horse - from the

town

의 정의 !!

②

o

)

①

^
Nno "

"

②

V

(A) Give (her) ( dog biscuits ) / Give (her dog ) biscuits

(B) Told ( the teacher )(that he ran into something )
    Told ( the teacher that he ran into ) (something )

(F) Flying( adjective ) airplanes : 날아다니는 비행기
     Flying (verb ) airplanes : 비행기를 날리는 것은

w is

ware

Study

( Structural / lexical ambiguity )

( 1 ) structural ambiguity

intelligent professors

and students

( 2) pitchers
1) 항아리

intelligent professors

and students

지 투수

lexical ambiguity
「

V structural ambiguity

( 3 ) structure o nomonym

Mary observed the man at the bann은행할
(

Mary observed at the bank

the man at

the bank

(

Mary saw John'
s cnose rin

John '

s nose ring
@ ] 명사

An ornament

( sonn ' snosp Iri 동사

To make a sound

The ambiguity in (cid:18709)B(cid:18710) is created due to different structure and homonymy.
When the verb see' is monotransitive with 'John's nose ring' as its object,
'ring' is used as a noun referring to 'the ring as an ornament'. On the
other hand, when the verb 'see' is complex transitive, 'ring' becomes a
bare infinitive complement that means 'to make a sound'. Thus, the two
different readings are possible as follows: "She saw the nose ring as an
ornament, which belongs to John." and "She saw that John's nose makes
a (vibrating) noise."

Study

2022 . A .

n

Coordination and one replacement / complement and adjunct

n

Adjunct PP

r ronm

complementpp

(i) The man who entered the room was the linguistics and Korean professor.
‘Korean’ is interpreted as language in (i). This is because coordination is
only possible when two constituents share the same type of syntactic
function; ‘linguistics,’ which is a complement, has to be conjoined by another
complement.

부족하다!!

(ii) Mina is not the Japanese professor but the Korean one.
‘Korean’ is interpreted as nationality in (ii). The noun ‘one’ needs to be
modified by an adjunct.

답안 작성 :

앞에 간결하게 적어도 됨 !

지문표현

」

(i) language (ii) nationality // Coordination of two constituents with the
same syntactic function is possible. So in (i), because linguistics is a
complement of professor, the coordinated Korean is also a complement. The
noun professor in (ii) can be replaced by one only when modified by an
adjunct, so Korean is an adjunct meaning a nationality.

(i) language (ii) nationality. In (i), 'linguistics' is a complement, which can be
conjoined by another complement, 'Korean'. In (il). the noun 'professor' can
be replaced by 'one', which means that the noun is modified by an adjunct

답안 작성 순서 :
(i)와 (ii)를 각각 밝히기
(i) : coordination은 same type of syntactic function만 가능하다.
      앞에것이 complement 이기에 and 뒤에 있는 것도 complement이기에 lg이다.
(ii) : one replacement는 noun is modified by adjunct일때만 가능하다.
        professor 라는 noun이 one으로 대체된것으로 보아 앞에 있는 korean은 adjunct일것

디렉션 분석 :
1) (i) and (ii)에서 korean 해석 방법
2) explain answer based on (A)

Study

2020 . A . 6

( Negation / NPI/ structural ambiguity )

문제 풀이 순서 :
1) ambiguity를 일으키는 요소 다 찾기 ( temporal and locational adverbials )
‘in any room’이 matrix verb ( say)를 꾸미는지 >> matrix reading
‘in any room’이 embedded verb (know)를 꾸미는지 >> embedded reading

e yetlany

•

2) 두 방법을 다 생각하면서 ‘not’의 위치 파악하기
•

(i) : not이 embedded sentence에 들어가있기에 (A)에 따라서 in any room은
embedded reading밖에 안된다.
(ii) : not이 matrix sentence에 들어가 있기에 (A)에 따라서 in any room은 둘다 가능
하다.

3) 답안 작성 :
(i) embedded reading, (ii) matrix reading and embedded reading. For (i), the
negative word ‘not’ only c-commands the NPI ‘any’ in the embedded reading
when the PP ‘in any room’ modifies the verb ‘sing’. For (ii), the negative word
‘not’ c-commands the NPI ‘any’ both in the embedded reading and the matrix
reading when the PP ‘ in any room’ modifies the verbs ‘sing’ and ‘say,’
respectively.

fenbeddeduredicate

predicates

wnetner

_

The sentence (i) has an embedded reading, since the negation ‘not’ that is in the
embedded clause c-commands the NPI ‘any’, which means that ‘in any room’
modifies the embedded predicate. The sentence (ii) has both readings since the
negation can c-command the NPI ‘any’ regardless of its position, which means
that the adverbial can modify both matrix and embedded predicates.

∞

디렉션 분석 :
1) 각 문장이 matrix reading/ embedded reading / both인지 파악하기
2) explain your answers based on (A)

Study

2018학년도. A. 9 ( scope of ambiguity - scope of negation )

전공 팀들 답안 :

Reading 1: Mary refused to visit any cities that Tom visited. Reading 2: Mary
refused to visit all the cities that Tom visited. (Mary was willing to visit some
of the cities.) In reading 1, the quantifier 'every' has a wide scope over the
negative expression 'refused' while in reading 2, 'refused' has a wide scope
over 'every'.

The two possible meanings of the sentences are as follows :First, when ‘every’
has a wider scope over ‘refused,’ it means that Mary didn’t agree to visit any
cities that Tom visited. Second, when ‘refused’ has a wider scope over ‘every’,
it means that Mary refused to visit some cities that Tom visited but not all.

Quantifier

,

VS

euantifier

Auantifier

us

)

Negative expression

'

Study

트포 챕터 2 exercise

1) keen on / the boat : ( ~에 대해 몹시 예민하다)/ keen( adj ) / on the boat : 예민한( 장소)
2) with rifles : 누구를 수식

s

s

삶

opolice

밥 .아
. 행

shoot

terorists

epolice 삶이
snoot 물

The terrorists

④

3) run down / the new road : phrasal verb( 찾아내다 )
   run / down the new road : prepositional verb ( V + PP ) ( 아래로 내려갈 것이다 )

4) They may meet / with skepticism : 그들은 회의감을 가지고 만난다.
    They may / meet with skepticism : 그들은 회의감과 만난다. ( prepositional V : 맞닥뜨리다 )

1) a) ran [ up a huge hill ] : 뛰어 올라가다
   b) [ ran up ] a huge bill : 빚을 쌓다
2) entirely : VP adverb / naturally : S adverb
3) obviously : S adverb / passionately : VP adverb
4) live [ off bamboo shoots ] : prepositional verb
    [ kill off] bamboo shoots : phrasal verb
Entirely : VP adverb
5)

Study

[

λ

[

)

putup ) . efedu

NP & CP
)- )-

[

" x

]

Orundownphrasal Verb 로 보봐도 되지 않나요 ? 그래도 비문이긴하지만

s whole sentence cp

N AP

= PRO- NP

Study

)

s

ㅱ µ

Parents

can

VD

reat *(

Advp

Gadly

(21

S

낫
다 .삼
oranly

,

Yo

Aside

(1)  [ pick up ] the ladder
• Pick the ladder up
• Pick it up
•
•

*Pick quickly up the ladder
*Up the ladder, he will pick

(2) [ climb] [ up the ladder ]
* climb the ladder up
•
* climb it up
•
• Climb quickly up the ladder
• Up the ladder, he will climb
• Did he climb up the stairs ?
—>> No, up the stairs ( sentence fragment )

TG multiword verbs 봐야겠다(cid:18573)(cid:18573)

Study

Binding theory

트포 챕터 3

1. C- command / NPI  / 2. C- command / anaphor / 3. Adjectives vs Determiners

PRONOUN

A

A

*

*

*

(

*

(

(

(

A

JA

A

JA

) A

) A

Study

한번만만족하면 된다!

A

C ( R - expression )

B

B

A

A

A

A

) B

) B

) ⑬
IB

A

A

A

A

A

≈

↴

(

(

*

*

*

*
(

Study

1

ND

)

S

spectNo
saci양 speci

NP

Heidi' sli

)
d

picture

of himselfli )

motner

ㅱ

bopped herselfli )

A

A

A

B

B

B

Λ
Tomli )

B

~ 한번이라도 거치면 땡 !

3

A

A

→ does not agree in gender

→

"

→ doesn ' t agree in number

s doesn

'

t agree in number_

person

A

A

A

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

Study

ppronoun 사

*

B

B

BC

-commandoindex×

- ⑬
) B

(
(

↴

↴

뮴

C

C

C

A

B

B

B

*

*

*

*

_

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

(

*

*

[
[

、

← _

(

움 ( A,

JA
JA

B

) B

A

A

B

B

] A

B
B

B

A

A

) A

I A

(

A

A

B

(

(

(

(

<

(

(

*

*

≈

* ↴

*

*

(
{

A

*

*

*

*

B

B

B

A

A

)

(

) A
A

) B

A

A

A
A

A

) A

A

(
(

\

JB

> B
JB

J B

B

] B

A

A

Study

트포 챕터 3

Dand E are not exhaustively

dominated by C

because of the node F

also dominated by C

Study

Study

-WK
요 -∞ - 옷

Study

- b

- ℃

Study

b

- ℃

Study

트포 챕터 3 연습문제

Potential antecedent가 없으면 binding domain이 확장된다!

Study

⑧

S

↴

6

、

5(c )

I

5 (al

」
s(n)

Nb
Detk ,
No N ㅱ Frenchmen

Vp
i

would

NP
'
Tn

some

Det

d

' 6lal

Frenchmen

S

I

6c)

VP

wouldit6b,
"☆

hecp

an .E . m

n

S

help

ant . m

n( c )

⑧

bet

some

)

I

8(a)

NP n 8( a
'n ,
".

d ,
v☆

would

an Eim

8( b )

nelp

임
Fim ai
☆
망 '
wnoit항

…

N,

pet ↓ nla, 동애고 7 ( )
some ↓
rTop
help ber'
↓

Frenchmen

no

n

'

Eim

immediate

'

like Eip

(onsiuent ( X )

S

⑬.atall

Inange

.

동해

bet r .
theoct.
사다닮
vre.d

Study

- llC

so

- 11 b

- so

」 so lla

- 서술용법 @

Study

④ PREVIEWD

갗 inar
.,"

트포 챕터 4 ( N-bar, Complement and adjunct, complex NPs, ambiguity )

4.2 Small nominal phrases

The king of England : NP  Evidence : It can take the genitive ‘s inflection
Ex ) The king of England’s

Of England : PP

Evidence : Coordination with another PP is possible
Ex) The king [ PP of England ] and [ PP of the Empire ]

Evidence : Shared constituent
Ex) He is the king, and she is the queen, [ PP of England ].

Evidence : Sentence fragment
Ex) Speaker A : Was he the king of France ?
     Speaker B : No, [ PP of England ].

Evidence : Preposition in a question
Ex) [ PP of which country ] was he the king ?

Evidence : Replaced by PRO-PP : thereof
Ex) He dwelled in England, and was the king thereof for many a year.

Ict'

sassume that

it'

sanother

NP.

However ,

it seems

to be wrong .

>

@ The small nominal phrase ‘ king of England’ does not have the same distribution as
the full noun phrase ‘ the king of England ‘.

특정왕이어서 Det ' the "가 필수!

곡적어 NP

전치사 다음 NP

@ [ King of England ] doesn’t have the structure of phrase structure rule.
NP -> D NP

Determiners :
Determiners in English modify a type of nominal phrase, which is smaller than a full
noun phrase, though larger than a single noun. ( modify = tree 구조 상 sister 관계 )

Determiners cannot be stacked.
*a my book  / a book of mine
*this your tie / this tie of yours
*some your friends / some friends of yours / some of your friends

Conclusion :
the Noun 'king' is an N0 (=N), that the 'small' nominal phrase [king of England] is a
single phrasal expansion of 'king' and hence an N1 (=N'), and that the full NP [the
king of England] is a double phrasal expansion of the head Noun 'king', and hence
an N2 (=NP).

?? = N -bar

r NP

N

Study

4.3 Evidence for N-bar

4.4 Complement and Adjunct

King of England

1) Distributional evidence : It is a constituent since it can occur as an independent
unit in other types of sentence-structure.
Ex) He became [ king of England ].

So far : NP [ the King of England ].
The postnominal PP [ of England ] expands the head Noun ‘king’ into the N-bar
[ king of England ], while the determiner ‘the’ expands the N-bar ‘king of England’
into the N-double bar [the king of England ].

2) Undergo ordinary coordination :
Ex) Who would have dared defy the [ king of England ] and [ ruler of the Empire ].

N
^

N

'

'

3) Shared constituent : Shared constituent coordination
Ex) He was the last ( and some people say the best ) [ king of England ].
*ONLY unitary constituent can undergo simple coordination or can function as the
shared constituent.

4) Pronominalization : Use of the proform one ( One = PRO-N-bar )
Ex) The present king of England is more popular than the last one.
*The king of England defeated the one of Spain.

We could argue that the [king of England] can be replaced by one because it is an N-
bar, whereas ‘king’ cannot be replaced by one since it is only an N and not an N-bar.

• A student of physics  ( complement )   = He is studying physics
      Specifies what the student studying

• A student with long hair ( adjunct ) =/= He is studying long hair
      Merely give us additional info about the student

Grammatical function : Structural correlation
• Determiners expand N-bar into N-double-bar
• Adjuncts expand N-bar into N-bar
• Complements expand N into N-bar

daaughter N

1 ⑪

마아IW

Ordering of adjuncts and complements
• Complement would be closer to their head noun than adjuncts
Ex) The student [ of physics ] [ with long hair ]
     * The student [ with long hair ] [ of physics ] HAC X

No crossing of branches

Study

4.5 Optional constituents of Noun phrase

Determiners, Adjuncts, complements are all Optional constituents of Noun phrases.
그렇다고 모든 NP가 determiner 없이 쓰일 수 있다는 건 아니다!!

예 ) Noncount nouns and plural count nouns can be used without an overt determiner
but singular count nouns cannot.
Childhood can be traumatic ( = noncount noun )
Children can be traumatic ( =plural count noun )
*Child can be traumatic ( = singular count noun )

What is the structure of noun phrases which lack determiners and how will our
existing set of rules have to be modified in order to copy with such NPs ??

Students of Physics with long hair
Question What is the constituent status of the overall phrase ?
Answer : Is is indeed a full noun phrase

@ sentence - fragment로 가능
A: What kind of students do you hate teaching ?
B : Students of physics with long hair.

@ Coordination
Students of physics with long hair and their professors

@ PRO-NP : Them
Students of physics with long hair sometimes think the world owes them a living.

2

그

2

그

The difference is that when the noun ‘student’ has an overt complement like [ of
physics ], then it functions only as an N ( because the corresponding N-bar is the
whole [noun + complement] ). But when the noun student has no overt complement,
then it is not only an N, but also an N-bar.

PRO form ‘one’ ( Pro N-bar ) / Not as PRO - N (Proforms do not replace word-level
categories )

*The student of chemistry was older than the one of physics.

• The student with short hair is dating the one with long hair
• This student works harder than that one.
• Which student were you referring to ? *The one of physics with long hair.
•
• Which student of physics ? The one with long hair ?
• Which student of physics with long hair ? This one ?
• Which student of physics ? That one ?
• Which student with long hair ? This one ?

Tnerule is Vacuous

>

rule 전체가
」 optional

coptional )

@ Ordinary Coordination ( only same category = function ) ( form X )
•
•
>> ONLY constituents attached at the same level can be coordinated.

*A student of physics and with long hair
*A student with long hair and of physics

무조건 complement와 adjunct 부분이 coordination에 보이더라도 한번 확인 후 고르기
• The [ students of chemistry and professors of physics ] N-bar끼리
• The [ students with long hair and professors with short hair ] N-bar 끼리
• The [ students of chemistry and professors with short hair ] N-bar 끼리

@ PP adjunct can be extra-posed from their heads more freely than PP complements
• A student came to see me yesterday [ with long hair ]
•
* A student came to see me yesterday [ of physics ]
: The more closely related a PP is to its head the less freely it can be extraposed.

@ Preposing : An NP which is the object of a preposition heading a complement PP can
be preposed more freely than an NP which is the object of a preposition heading an
adjunct PP.
•
•

[ What branch of physics ] are you a student of ?
[ What kind of hair ] are you a student with ?

: Preposed bracketed NP is the object of the preposition ‘of’ and ‘with’
: NP which is part of an adjunct PP cannot be preposed

@ Co-occurrence restriction
Complement는 head noun과 더 밀접한 관련이 있으니 당연히 아무 head와 결합 불가하다.

@ Subcategorization restriction
We find subcategorization restriction holding between the head noun student and its
sister complement PP [ of physics ], but not between student and its aunt adjunct PP
[ with long hair].

Study

4.6 More differences between complements and adjuncts

@ Different semantic structure
•
•
Each N-bar specifies a semantic property.

John is a [ N’ [ N student ] of physics ]
John is a [ N’ [ N’ [ N student ] with long hair ]

1 property

2 property

• He studies physics
• He studies and that he has long hair.

중의성 :
A student of high moral principles
• Complement : A person who studies high moral principles
    A [ N’ [ N student ] of high moral principles ]

• Adjunct : A student who has high moral principles
    A [ N’ [ N’ [ N student ]] of high moral principles ]

@ Adjunct rule is recursive while complement rule is not
• The student with long hair with short arms
•

* The student of physics of chemistry ( 중간에 and 가 있어야 함 )

@ Adjuncts can be stacked in any order
• The student with long hair in the corner
• The student in the corder with long hair

@ PRO form one
• Which [ student ] ? The [ one ] with long hair in the corner?
• Which [ student with long hair ] ? The [ one ] in the corner ?
• Which [ student with long hair in the corner ]? That [ one ] ?

C

A

'
C

Study

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

You reply [ to my letter]
The attack [ on the prime minister ]
The loss [ of the ship ]
Her disgust [ at his behavior ]
His disillusionment [ with Linguistics ]
The suggestion [ that we should abandon cruise missiles ]
The demand [ for him to resign ]
The question [ whether euthanasia is ethical ]
The ban [ on pornography ] / The [ pornography] ban
The recruitment [ of personnel ] / [personnel ] recruitment
The appeal [for charity ] / the [charity ] appeal
The relief [ from famine ]/ [ famine ] relief
The damage [ to the brain ]/ [ brain ] damage
The investigations [ into fraud ] / the [ fraud ] investigations
The fan [ of Debbie Harry ] / A [ Debbie Harry ] fan
The allegations (주장 ) [ of treachery ] / The [treachery ] allegation

• The book [ on the table ]
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The advertisement [ on the TV ] about ( complement )
The fight [ after the match ] with ( complement )
His resignation [ because of the scandal ] from ( complement )
A Cup [ with a broken handle ]
The abolition of taxes [ next year ] NP
Those students of physics [ absent from class ] AP
The king of England [ who abdicated ] S

①

②

Study

Study

- 고대( 영어] 교사

- 이순서 ! !

rcompfAdjunct

Study

트포 챕터 4 연습문제

C

A

A

A

(

C

A

CA A

∅

T

AP A

⇌

PRO - N - bar

「

complement

Adjunct

C

A

C

C

A

C

A

A

A

C

A

C

C

A

(6a) : PP adjuncts can be extraposed from their heads more freely.
(7a) : An Np which is the object of the preposition heading a complement PP can be
preposed more freely.
—>> PP complement에서 preposition의 head인 NP는 더 자유롭게 전치될 수 있다.

Study

complement / Noun comp clauses

Adjunct 1 Restrictive relative clauses

그

고

그 어느 나라의 어느 왕도퇴임하지않았다.

중요성이 있는 어떤 왕도 퇴임하지 않았다.

C

C

A

A

Ad; (관계절)

comp (+hat절)

2/al

NP
DetNi

no

ingfanyc

2( b)

'

ND
pet N ,
N0 있ㅱ
↓
hing ofanyir

④ 3(b)

NP

3(c)

NP

3(a)

pet

r.
the NP⑫
'o in somenools

of any d.

acn

bet
the

'w ,
Λ

더값밤ansnooes

'

the

다이쳤
'쳤

δ

N

'
ㅱ

Feacherswithanyaualifications

Study

"

1)

Adjunct

near the park " 의 박

(thehonlk " ..
.
N' near the park

the wood Lii )

↓
house

in the wood

hoase

합다'
↓'다

청바지입은 여자들 □ 키 큰 아이

「

The tall [gire injeans ?

Thetall gire J injeans
e키큰여자해들 몇명 □ 청바지 입은 아이

N - bar (i )

N - bar Lii)

2 ) atoyfactory [,

,

wood

near teparte
toysmade of

factotactoythaatproduces

:

complementtoy

: adjunc←

3) a brass [ 닛미 ] button holderti

) a brassaebutton bolder]
ii ) a cbrass buttons holder

C

4) Tneking of Englondspeopk [ ,mehinghing f Engand] '

england

NJ' s

영국왕의 백성

영국인들의 왕

',peoeople?

1) an oldFrencssrudent

A

c - an old student who studies Freoch

A : an old student who is from France .

2개의 의미 : An oldstudent whosfudies

X ← a

who is Freach
a
A French English teacher : 중의성 X

oLa

C

)

Study

My sister, who lives in London, is a doctor. ―>> non-restrictive
: 다른 sister가 있는지 모름
My sister who lives in London is a doctor ―>> restrictive
: 다른 sister가 있는데 그 중에 London에 사는 자매 이야기

Study

트포 챕터 5 : Complements and adjuncts

OWE Head is

obligatory .
specifier and

complements are
optional

A complement
Internal to the
V-bar
containing
the head V

An adjunct
External to the
V-bar
containing the
head V

s Head

> complements

Distinction between complement and adjunct

Structural ambiguity :
(A) He may decide on the boat.   (B) He couldn’t explain last night.

(A) He may decide on the boat.  ( Complement or Adjunct )
• Complement : 배에 대하여 결정하다
• Adjunct : 배 위에서 결정하다

(B) He couldn’t explain last night.  (Complement or Adjunct )
• Complement : 지난밤을 설명하다
• Adjunct : 지난밤에 설명하다

1) Complement PP can generally be passivized, NP in an adjunct PP cannot.

>

더 이상 중의적 X / complement일 수 밖에 없다.

2) Pronominalisation ) Do so = PRO V-bar

C

C

A

C

Study

3) Ordering Restriction :
Complements will always occur closer to their heads than adjuncts.

6) Ellipsis : A V and all its complements, with or without its adjuncts can be
ellipsed.

D

)

)

VP

람 C

A V - bar

… C

√

기

A

"

㉛

C

C

CA

A

C

A

C

A

C

4) Co-occurrence restriction :
Head categories impose subcategorization restriction on the range of possible
complements they permit and not the range of adjuncts.
Ex) only a restricted class of verbs can be followed by an NP designating the
person from whom some information is requested.

complement

e Adjunct

Since in 27, < the man next door > has restrictions on the verb, it is a
complement. In 28, < yesterday afternoon > is an adjunct since any verbs could
come before it.

5) Complements tend to be obligatory, whereas adjuncts are always optional.

C

C

Adjunct

⑤ ordering →

CA C

Study

7) Type of Ellipsis : Gapping of a V may not leave more than one complement of
V within the containing V-bar.

Aspectual auxiliaries ( progressive be and perfect have ) are verbal specifiers :
Expand V-bar into V-double-bar
Adverbials like ( completely and utterly ) expand V-bar into V-bar ( V-bar
attributes )

CA

CC

8) Emphatic reflexives : Cannot occur as sister to V

C

C

A

C

매 C

C

A

complement

)

"

Study

'

' modifies

very
A - bar but

not an N -bar

nucthimodifies

N -bar but

not an A -bar

∞

morelless

this

Deteminers overlap

→ as . so . how . quite too

‘Fond Of Mary’가 A-bar라는 증거
1) Coordination : Only constituents of the same type can coordinate

2) Proform So : Indicates that ‘fond of Mary’ must be A-bar

D

)

Atributes

1) Recursively stacked 가능

2) ordering AHributes will always occur
adjective than deteminers .

A "

closer to their head

3'
,tsnomretut

Study

1) Pronominalization : P-bar proform ‘there’
Put it right [there]

2) Coordination :

)

"

Gadjunct

1) ponominalization => 5 o : PRo - P- bar

P- bar profom

σ

- Det

r atibute that expand p - bar into P-bar

2) Adverb completely

"

completely
the type of deteminer which expands

"

would always be closer to the head ip " tban

p- bar

in to p "

.

⇐

반대편에서

꾸미기리

Study

시

C

C

C

ㅐ

ㅐ

료 C

A

ㅐ

ㅐ

NP

NP

->> It is clear that (before/ in ) functions as a head which takes an NP
complement.

Question to solve : from (a) and over (b) :
• A specifier which takes a P-bar complement
• A head which takes a PP complement
>> from (A) - head / over (B) - specifier

1) from (A) - head라는 증거들
• From is not optional constituent
>> It is obligatory
*The dispute dates before the war.
( specifiers are optional while heads are obligatory )

• Subcategorization : the verb date subcategorizes a PP complement

headed by from

• Before-phrase can take its own specifier.

complements
head

than

closer to the

adjunts .

Study

그외

2) Over(B)가 specifier라는 증거

• Over is optional since
specifiers are optional

Ex) I’ve put your books in the corner

• The presence of over excludes the presence of another prepositional

specifier such as ‘right’

*I’ve put your books over right in the corner

• The ‘over’ can take a complement of its own
Ex) I’ve put your books [over there in the corner].

Heads are
obligatory
While spec and
complement
are all optional

A

C

C

A

r A Adjuncε

㎡

Vadjunct

Study 트포 챕터 5 연습문제

~ 에게 등을 돌리다 - comp

comp

adjunct

comp

compadjunct

」

)d;

s run Cafterlay

L3 runl after] Mary
comp

: May 다음으로 run
: Mary를 쫓아

)

comp

adjunct

adj

comp

comp / shared consitituent coordination

Bight node raising

(

,

(

comp

!

Study

"

Study

트포 챕터 6 Clauses

Distinction
between
Finite and
nonfinite

Non finite clauses

⑧

⇌

1) Uninflected infinitive form ( infinitive particle to ) - infinitival
2) Gerund form ( -ing suffix ) - gerundive
3) Perfect/ passive participle form ( base + -en inflection ) - participal
—> These are intrinsically tenseless that they cannot be replaced by tensed forms
Ex) It would be silly [ for me to hate Syntax ]
     *It would be silly [ for her to hates Syntax ]
     *It would have been silly [ for you to hated Syntax ]

Test of finite verb

I know that you hate Syntax. I’d never known you hate anything as much as Syntax.
: Finite 한지 nonfinite한지 구분이 안감.

1) Change the subject of the clause from ‘you’ to a third person singular subject like
‘John’, and then see whether the verb remains invariable.
—> I know that John hates / *hate Syntax [ finite ]
—> I’ve never known [ him hate / *hates anything as much as syntax ]. [ nonfinite ]

2) The relevant verb-form can be replaced by a past tense verb-form carrying the
overt past tense inflection -(e)d.
—> I knew [that John hated/ *hate syntax ] [finite ]
—> I’d never known [ him hate/ *hated anything as much as syntax ]. [nonfinite ]

3) Any clause which can contain a modal auxiliary is finite while any clause which
cannot contain a modal is nonfinite.
—> I know [that you will/ might/ could/ should hate Syntax ] [finite]
—> *I’ve never known [ you will/ might/ could/ should hate anything as much as
syntax ]. [nonfinite]

트리에서 T 자리
: tense and agreement
: modal aux와 to는 원래 여기에 위치

Finite clauses that lack
morphological characteristics
of finite verbs

1) Indicative 직설법
I know [that you leave for Hawaii tomorrow ]
2) Subjunctive 가정법
I demand [that you leave for Hawaii tomorrow ]

Both introduced by the particle ‘that’ and both types of that-clause are generally
classified as finite.
•
•
•
•

(a) I know [that John leaves / *leave for Hawaii tomorrow ]
(b) I know [that John left / * leave for Hawaii last week ]
(a) I demand [that John leave / *leaves for Hawaii tomorrow ]
(b) I demanded [that John leave / *left Hawaii the following day ]

Indicative (know ): Verbs in indicative clauses are variable ( can take the present
tense -(e)s and past tense -(e)d
Subjunctive(demand ): Verbs in subjunctive clauses are invariable ( can’t take ~ )

근데 왜 subjunctive는 finite clause로 여겨지는 거지?? 왜냐면 다른 나라에서도 그렇기 때문이야
그리고…
• nonfinite clause와 차이점이 있기 때문이지! non finite clause는 주어가 없어도 되는데

indicative nor subjunctive clause can be subjectless.
Ex: *I know [that leaves for Hawaii tomorrow ] indicative
     *I demand [that leave for Hawaii tomorrow ] subjunctive
     I intend [ to leave for Hawaii tomorrow ] infinitive - nonfinite
    I intend [leaving for Hawaii tomorrow ] gerund - nonfinite

•

Subjunctive clause pattern like indicative clause with respect to case-marking.

Ex) The subject of either indicative or a subjunctive clause is always assigned
nominative case
I know that they/ *them/ *their leave for Hawaii tomorrow.
I demand that they / *them/ *their leave for Hawaii tomorrow.

VS Subject of an infinitive clause is assigned objective case
I want them / *they / *their to leave for Hawaii tomorrow.

VS Subject of a gerund clause is assigned either objective or genitive
case.
I don’t like the idea of [them/ their/ *they leaving for Hawaii
tomorrow.

하지만 문제가 S-bar analysis를 따라가는걸 좋다고 치자! 하지만 not all complement clauses
do in fact contain overt complementisers. (기출 )

예를 들어 앞에 나왔던 문장을 that 없이도 쓸 수 있다.
Ex) We know for certain [ the president will approve the project ].
이런 문장은 그럼 어떻게 하냐?
•
[ S the President will approve the project ]
•

It is an S-bar of the the usual [ C S ] structure, except the complementiser
position has been left ‘empty’

It is an S constituent and not an S-bar and therefore does not contain a comp

[ S’ [C e] [ S the president will approve the project ]

Complementiserless clause can be conjoined with one containing an overt comp

두번째 analysis가 맞다. empty C이고 S-bar라는거 증거는 coordination facts
•
Ex) We know [ the President will approve the project ], and [that congress will
ratify his decision ].
ONLY constituents belonging to the same category can be conjoined.

Complement clause conclusion : Irrespective of whether they contain an overt
comp or not they have the status of S-bar

Study

Constituent
Structure of
clauses

•

Internal structure of finite clauses ( S -> NP M VP )

하지만 NP 앞에 Clause introducing particle like ‘that, for, whether’가 들어갈 수 있음.
Ex) We know for certain [that the president will approve the project ]
     We would obviously all prefer [ for the matter to be resolved amicably ]
     I couldn’t really say [whether it will rain ]
: These are complementisers ( that for whether )

C is generated within S as a sister to the subject NP of the clause

그러면 c는 어떻게 형성이되냐? C가 있는 문장은 어떤 형태인가?
•
S —> C NP M VP ( S analysis )
•

C and S together form a larger clausal unit S-bar (= S’) ( S-bar analysis )

[That the president will approve the project ] -
S-analysis :

S-bar analysis:

Which is the correct analysis ? There are number of arguments which seem to
favour the S-bar analysis

1) Shared constituent coordination : The shared sequence must be a constituent
Ex) I’ve been wondering whether (but am not entirely sure that ) the president will
approve the project.

2) Ellipsis ( Gapping ) : Gapping can only happen when S constituents are conjoined,
not S-bar.  (A) I wonder whether [ S John likes fish ] and [ S Mary meat ]

(B) *I wonder [ S’ whether John likes fish] and [ S’ whether Mary meat ]

이걸로 우린 S-bar와 S가 각각 separate categories임을 알 수 있다.

Study

Structure of
Main clause

Are main clauses also S-bar ?
• While complement clause either can or must contain an overt comp, main clauses

by contrast can never contain an overt comp in English

Ex) *That the government may change its decision
     *Whether the Prime minister will resign ?

BUT Why ? Because they have the status of S constituents and not of S-bar라고 할 수
도 있지만 이게 아니라 they are indeed S-bar constituents but the C position in a MC
must obligatorily be left empty of overt complementisers like that/for/ whether.

One must be vigilant, [whether it be at home or abroad ].
One must be vigilant, [ be it at home or abroad ]
*One must be vigilant, [whether be it at home or abroad ]

The bracketed clause is a subjunctive clause ( S-bar/ CP ) containing the subjunctive
auxiliary verb ‘be’ 가정법
: Both complementisers and inverted auxiliaries are positioned in C, then the
presence of teh complementiser whether in C excludes the possibility of auxiliary be
being inverted with the subject NP it.

왜?? Many lgs do use overt comps to introduce main clauses 또 다른 나라에서 그러니까ㅎ
하지만 다른 근거가 있기도 해~~~ empty complementiser analysis를 지지하는

Interrogative main clause :
Would she get a degree ? = S-bar

Interrogative structures(questions) which contain an ‘inverted’ auxiliary.

•
Your sister could go to college. Could your sister go to college ?
—> Now presubject position is the position typically occupied by comps
( inverted aux occupy the pre-subject complementiser position )

: Complementisers and inverted auxiliaries are mutually exclusive / Both occupy the C
position in a clause
>> Clauses introduced by complementisers cannot contain inverted auxiliaries and
conversely.

Ex) Will I get a degree? John wondered.
      John wondered whether he would get a degree [ complementiser ]
      John wondered would he get a degree [ inversion ]

: The presence of the complementiser whether excludes the possibility of having an
inverted auxiliary in pre-subject position.
*John wondered whether would he get a degree.
—> inverted auxiliaries occupy the pre-subject C position

하지만 is it not plausible to claim S-bar status for noninterrogative main clauses
lacking an inverted auxiliary ?
Ex) Your sister could go to college.

coordination 가능 : [ your sister could go to college ] but [ would she get a
degree ? ]
그럼으로 inverted aux가 없는 절도 S-bar이다!

결론 : All ordinary clauses have a status of S-bar constituents of the schematic form
[ C  S ], and thus contain a C constituent which may either be filled ( by an overt
comp or an inverted aux ) or left empty.

S’ [ Mary might think [ S’ that he will resign ]].

Both of them are finite
indicative S-bar constituents

Study

Types of comps

Syntactic : interrogative or noninterrogative
Morphological : finite or nonfinite

Internal structure of S

이제 S-bar는 끝! S이야기를 하려고해~~

1) that : noninterrogative finite complementiser
—> only introduce finite clauses and not infinitives

2) For : noninterrogative infinitive complementiser
—> introducing infinitive clause is possible but not finite clauses

3) Whether : interrogative complementiser which can introduce finite and nonfinite
clauses
If : interrogative complementiser which can only introduce finite complement
clauses

Modals and infinitive ‘to’ is into the category ‘I’

1) They cannot co-occur ( *can to / *to can )

2) VP ellipsis is possible after modals but not after lexical verbs
• First people began pouring out of the building, and then smoke did ____
• First people began pouring out of the building, and then smoke *began _____

: 아래 문장 ) 동사이기에 VP 안에 있는 성분이 생략되는 것 >> VP ellipsis가 아님
>> VP ellipsis are possible after infinitival ‘to’
: First people began to pour out of the building, and then smoke began to ______

In addition to being inflected for tense, a finite ‘I’ constituent is also inflected for
agreement
: The relevant agreement properties are person and number features which must
match those of the subject of the clause

I is inflected for tense and also for
agreement
I inflects for person and number, and
must agree with its subject
Person and number features of I must
match those of the subject

agreement is covert in all past tense forms except for ‘be’동사
: be 동사는 was, were가 있기에 past tense form에서도 agreement가
overt하다

Study

Empty I analysis

-(e)s inflection is added to the modal and if it is empty it applies to the
leftmost V of VP

Reason : Nominative case marking

modal이 없으니
그냥
I가 없다고 해도
될까??

—> answer : No! We are going to say that 63(b) has an empty I
—> Reason : a complex interconnection between I and C
Clause containing a finite C requires a finite I 48(a)

Clause containing a nonfinite C requires a nonfinite I 49(a)

이렇게 둘이 연결되어 있으니 covert C가 있으면 covert I도 무조건 있는것!

정리 ) a clause introduced by a finite C will contain a finite I, whereas
a clause introduced by a nonfinite C will contain a nonfinite I.

Subjunctive clause requires an overt comp, so we need ‘that’ in 67(a).
But where is I ?? Subjunctive clause has a covert I ( empty I ).

All ordinary clause contain an I constituent, which may either be filled or
not.

I는 어떤걸 나타내는가 ? What does I carry ?
• Tense ( + past, -past )
• Agreement (number, person )

•

If ‘John’ is replaced by a personal pronoun, which is overtly marked
for case, nominative form ‘he’ is required and not the objective form
‘him’.

Ex) I really think [that he/ *him does like you ]. (Modal O )

• Case-marking of John in a finite clause
Ex) I really think [that he/ *him likes you ]. (Modal X )

: We need one rule like (70) to handle nominative case-marking in finite
clauses containing a modal, and an entirely separate nominative rule to
handle finite clauses which lack a modal like (74). 어떻게 하지ㅎㅎㅎ

이러면 해결된다. Advantage of the empty I analysis is that it enables us
to provide a unitary account of the case-marking of the subjects of
finite clauses irrespective of whether they contain a modal or not.
Finite clauses will have nominative case assigned to their subjects by
rule (70).

Study

I-inflections

Inflection -(e)s ( third person singular present tense )
+ -(e)d past tense are I -inflections
: Tense/ agreement properties of I

There are two nonfinite inflections : ing / -(e)n
Could -ing and -(e)n be I -inflections like -(e)s and -(e)d ?? Answer : NO

1) Because items which occur in I never take either inflection.

Clauses with empty subjects

• Some clauses appear to be subjectless.
Ex) The president isn’t sure [whether he should approve the project ]
    The president isn’t sure [whether to approve the project ]
—>> 여기서도 마찬가지로 overt pronoun vs covert pronoun (PRO)이다

2) -ing and -(e)n forms occur in clauses which already have I filled, as
with the bracketed clauses in the following.

Then, what are they ?? They are V inflections : Inflections which attach
only to a V generated under VP( to a non-modal verb )

정리 : present -(e)s and past -(e)d are I-inflections whereas their
nonfinite counterparts -ing and -(e)n are V inflections.

—> Items ( such as modal ) which lack -ing and -en forms must be
generated under I, whereas items which have -ing and -en forms must be
generated within VP ( eg. Aspectual auxiliaries (have and be )and
nonauxiliary verbs )

유덤 2022 +

TD

DP
They

"

7

nave
(present fense)

‰

'

ve been to that place before .

'

④ They '
They '
④
Because of null I constituent

ve their car

fixed . 축약 X

The evidence of PRO analysis :
• Agreement ) A predicate nominal agrees(명사) with the subject of

its own clause

• They are not sure [whether he should be a candidate/

*candidates ]

The president is not sure [whether to be a candidate / *candidates ]
이 문장에선 pro와 agree중 ~~
—>> The president is not sure [ whether PRO to be a candidate/
*candidates ]

PRO inherits the number, gender, and person of its antecedent, and
thus third person masculine singular.

• Reflexives ) Reflexives require a clausemate antecedent
Ex) Bill thinks [that John might kill himself ].
The president is not sure [whether to vote for himself ].
이 문장에서도 pro의 antecedent는 the president
—>> The president is not sure [whether PRO to vote for himself ].

V

nave (main verb )

Empty category가 너무 많은데 어떤게 empty할 수 있는건가?
: C, I, NP 가능한줄 우리가 봤는데…

아 any category can in principle be left empty ㅎㅎ

Study

Exceptional
clauses

명사가 자기에게
theta role을 주
는 동사가 아닌 다
른 동사에게 case
를 받기 위해
move

대부분 he
believes him to
be a liar.
(SOR)

Case-marking,
Passivization,
Reflexivisation
Do not normally
apply across
clause-
boundaries.

It could apply
across S but not
across S-bar

Other type of clauses which do not have the status of S-bar.
( Exceptional clause / small clause )

• Exceptional clauses occur as the complements of a specific subset of

verbs ( especially cognitive verb : verbs of thinking or saying )

Passivization can apply
across S but not across
S-bar

특징 1 ) They cannot be introduced by an overt complementiser such as
infinitival for [ -wh, -finite ]

This is because exceptional clauses have the status of S, not S-bar.

특징 2 ) Their subjects in some respect behave more like objects of the
preceding verb than subjects of the following verb.
Exceptional clause subjects are assigned objective case.

A class of expressions which have a property that are restricted to occur
as subjects of clauses : Subject expression

• Subject idiom chunks
The chips are down : 포커에서 모든 베팅이 완료되고 카드를 열어보기 직전 상황에
서 유래 / 매우 어렵거나, 위험한 상황에 처했을 때
The cat is out of the bag : 비밀이 누설되다
The shit hit the fan : 재난이 닥치다, 궁지에 빠지다, 위태한 상황이 되다

정말 큰일이다 ㅎㅎㅎ

The fur will fly : 큰 소동이 나다 ( 베개 싸움 할 때 생각하자 !!)

• Pleonastic pronouns ( it and there ) : ONLY occur in subject position
It is raining / It is a long way to Dallas
There must have been some mistake. There walked into the room a
woman.

Pleonastic = redundant = semantically empty
—>> Cannot have a referenced question like
‘ What is raining ? ‘ ‘ Where must have been some mistake?’

사 주어라는 증거 ( 앞과상반되는 이야기 )

The italicised
NP Is the
subject of the
bracketed
comp clause,
not the object
of the Main
clause

Study

Comparing ECM
To ~~

John persuaded Mary to resign. Vs I believed [the president to be right].

1) John persuaded [Mary to resign ]. ECM verb structure
2) John persuaded Mary [ to resign ].

그럼 왜 ??

"

금Br

We cannot replace Mary in by an appropriate subject expression.

—>> Mary isn’t the subordinate clause subject, but rather the main
clause object
We persuaded Mary [ PRO to resign ].

5 - baro )

(

S (X )

The differences between ‘persuade’ and ‘believe’

• Positioning of the verbal adjuncts

Firmly :
VP adverb

: Adjuncts must be contained within the same S as the V it modifies.

• Floating emphatic reflexives
: Reflexives require a clausemate antecedent

• Though preposing

Persuade 의 object

↴

m

≈ believe 의 object ( × )

John persuaded Mary to resign.

•
= John persuaded Mary [ S’ that she should resign ].

Three-place predicate/ Predicate that takes three arguments
Three arguments : Subject NP John, NP primary object Mary, NP
secondary object S’ [that she should resign ].

John believed Mary to be innocent.

•
= John believed [ S’ that Mary was innocent ].

Two-place predicate / Predicate that takes two arguments
Two arguments : Subject NP john, Object S-bar [that Mary was innocent]

The NP which follows persuade in infinitive structures has two semantic
roles to play :  Directly as object of persuade, indirectly (through PRO )
as the subject of the following infinitive.
The NP which follows believe in infinitive structures has only one
semantic role to play, namely that of subject of the following infinitive
complement.

하지만 persuade에서 Mary와 pro는 각각 다른 thematic role을 받는다.
Mary한테 thematic role이 두개가 부여되는게 아니다!

•

Post passivization

④ 앞동사의 object 가 아니라 to 부정사절의 주머로 볼 수

있는 증거

I believed [ a specialist to have examined John ]
= I believed [ John to have been examined by a specialist ].

I persuaded a specialist to examine John.
=/= I persuaded John to be examined by a specialist.

Believe : Two- place predicate which takes an infinitival S complement
Persuade : three-place predicate which takes NP object, S-bar object

Verbs like persuade take an infinitive complement with a PRO subject
whose reference is controlled by the direct object of persuade.

Control predicates : object-control predicate

Control predicates : subject-control predicate

John promised Mary [ S’ C PRO to resign ]
John promised Mary [ S’ that he would resign ]

Study

Small clauses

Ordinary clauses [ C NP I VP ]
Exceptional clauses [ NP I VP ] : Lack C altogether and are simply S
Small clauses : [ NP XP ] : Lack C and also I

지만 보고 ECM 고르지 X

높

•

Alone-final NPS ( subject hood ) : subject position일때만 가능

The italicized NP can be replaced by an appropriate subject expression

• Floating emphatic reflexives : ONLY have its antecedent in subject

position.

• Reflexive : Reflexives need a classmate antecedent

I don’t want [ you near me / *myself ]

• Subjecthood : Not-initial Nps occur only in superficial subject position.

Small clauses lack C
• They cannot be introduced by over comps
*I didn’t consider [ that / if/ whether/ for it suitable ]

Small clauses can’t contain an inverted aux in pre-subject position
•

*Let [ be there light ]

This is because both complementizer and inverted auxiliaries are
positioned in C

⑪

Small clauses lack I
• They cannot contain the infinitive particle to, or a modal
*I consider [ your attitude to / can deeply offensive ]
*Let [ there to / can be light ]

Small clauses share many of the properties of subjects of exceptional
clauses.
They are assigned objective case, they permit main clause
passivization and reflexivisation, they do not permit PRO subjects.

↴

NB

pP

NP

VP

Study

트포 챕터 6 연습 문제

CS J VP

CSI VP

SI VP

CI VD

C x ( z - cmovement )

sVD

→ nullcomp

-> amptyc

1) I don’t expect you(i) [ t(i) to win ] SOR
2) I can’t force you(i) [ PRO(i) to help me ]
3) Why don’t you get Mary(i) [PRO(i) to cook the food]?
4) The courts may declare Syntax(i) [ t(i) to be unconstitutional ] believe type
5) Nobody will tell you(i) [ PrO(i) to work harder]
6) I can’t imagine Mary(i) [t(i) to be entirely blameless ]
7) They may ask for the chairman(i) [ PrO(i) to resign]

(

factivev

L7 null comp 가능하다는 말 ! 생략 TF

direct object 여서 생략 T☆

,

Nβ미리 겹침 방지

factive ② + comp :

' that ,생략 X

subjunctive 생략 X

<

V

√

주어로 올때 생략 X

. 강조로 올라간것 ⇒ 생략 X

동격의 that ' 생략 X

object relative 생략 0
subject relative 생략 X

coordination . 2ndX

Study

Study

Study

트포 챕터 7

subcategorisation

•
•

Item subcategorises a particular range of complements
There isn’t any general way where we can predict which verbs do or
do not take a following NP complement.

Prepositional complements

자 : subcategonize zero complements
타

(
"

,

지

vast amount of

3

redundant

info

Study

Complement order

= If complement order is predictable from general structural principles,
then any specification of it in lexical entries is redundant.

—>> Items should be subcategorised only with respect to the range of
complements they permit, not with respect to the optional adjunct which
can accompany them.

Clause-last principle : 마지막이 clause

Study

Free combination :

Clausal complements

astound = 경악시키다

ns -bar

Study

Subcategorising adjectives, nouns, and prepositions

Mary is fond of ~ *Mary is fond
His reliance on ~ *His reliance

I haven’t seen him [ since the party ] NP
I haven’t seen him [ since the party began ] S’
I haven’t seen him [since ] Null complement
: Since subcategorises NP, S-bar, null complement

He waited [until her departure]
He waited [until she left]
*He waited [until ]
: Until subcategorises NP or S-bar complement but not null complement

He left [during the party]
*He left [ during the party was still going on ]
*He left [ during ]
: during subcategorises NP but not S-bar, null complement

*He collapsed [while the party]
He collapsed [while the party was in full swing ]
*He collapsed [while]
: While subcategorises only a clausal complement

Study

Selection Restrictions

Thematic relations

: Subcateorisation restrictions are restrictions on the range of categories
which a given item permits or requires as its complements.
There are generally clear restrictions on the choice of complements
( selection restrictions )

Argument ( subject and complement ) of a predicate bears a particular
thematic role.

NP complement has to denote
some rational entity.
: Convince subcategorises an NP
complement but select a rational
complement.

Subcategorisation - syntactic
Selection restriction - semantic

Although items do not subcategorise their subjects, they do nontheless
select Selections restrictions on their choice of subjects.

Argument = subject + complement
: Selection restrictions hold between a given item and its arguments.
We can say that a given item select their arguments

Persuade vs Consider

•
•

John persuaded Mary [ to tell the truth ]
John considers [ Mary to dislike him]

Agent

Goal

theme

wmmm

Mary is an argument of persuaded in the first sentence, but not an
argument of considers in the second sentence.
Restriction holds between persuaded and Mary but non between
considers and Mary.

(A) John rolled the ball down the hill.
(B) The ball rolled down the hill.

Selection restrictions

The ball has the theta-role
theme in both.
It is the entity undergoing
motion

•
•

Frighten ( allows abstract subjects / human objects )
Murder ( First argument ( = subject) and its second
argument ( = object ) be human )

Study

1) The vase ( instrument ) shattered the glass.
The vase shattered (theme )
: Distinct thematic roles in the two different sentences.

2) Adverbs like deliberately can co-occur only with agent phrases
: John (= agent ) deliberately rolled the ball down the hill.
*The ball( = theme ) deliberately rolled down the hill.

3) Adverb like personally can only co-occur with experiencer arguments

4) Only verbs with agent subjects permit by-phrase nominal counterparts

Argument : Internal to VP ( = complements)
             External to VP ( = subjects )

Extemal argument

subject
intemal argument V comp

S

Λ
D VP
v ,

John ( agent ) broke the window.

5) Only constituents of the same thematic function can be conjoined.
•
• A hammer ( instrument ) broke the window.
: ?? John and a hammer broke the window.

instrement

locative

Clocative

Study

Constraints on theta-marking

How many theta-roles can be assigned to a given category? / given NP
could bear two theta-roles to the same predicate.

s

Study

Study

Study

Study

트포 챕터 8

V-movement

Modal auxiliary : will/ would, can/could, shall/should, may/might
Modals are generated under finite I

Have and Be

Finite I carries…(intrinsic property)
1) tense ( past/ present ) 2) agreement(person, number)

These features are realized on the modal.
Ex) John [I does] [VP annoy me]. ( annoy : uninflected )

BUT what if there aren’t any modals ?? Answer : These features
of I are realized on the leftmost V of VP, which is then inflected
for the relevant tense/ agreement features.
Ex) John annoys me.

Have and Be originate within VP
( specifiers of V or as the head V of VP)
                                     ―>> Moved out of VP and into I by V-movement
Aspectual aux

The leftmost occurrence of Have and Be moves out of VP into
the empty I constituent.

But how does tense/ agreement inflections associated with I end
up on a verb which originates as the head V of VP ?
―>> Affix movement ( The features lower onto the V of VP )

V-movement evidence

I → V

1) Negation facts

V → 도

―>> V movement ( V of VP moves higher to I where features are )

II에위치

( 남

e 가만히 있고 동사가 이동 !

둘중에 뭐가 맞는지 판단하기 어려운 이유:
영어에서 V와 I는 서로 붙어있기에 어떤 이론을 택하던 결과는 같다.
그래서 둘이 붙어있지 않은 다른 언어에서 결론을 내리자면…

Adopting the V movement analysis for English !!

‘Annoys’
remains
within VP

‘Annoys’
ends up as a
constituent
of I

Study

2) Adverb insertion

3) Have contraction

stressed fom ) / nav1 , unstressed : Ihavl ,

12V 1

S-adverbials : certainly, probably, definitely ( occur as immediate
constituent of S )

Pronoun ending in a vowel or a diphthong, unstressed have lose
its vowel and be contracted down to the nonvocalic form /v/,
which is written as ‘ve’ in the spelling.

④

④

④

) occur in positions
intemally within VP

n why is it okay here ?
positioned after aux

'

nave ,

15 (al

「

V-movement 가능 ?? ―>> 아니요~~

V-movement is only possible into an empty finite I, and so is
blocked above because I is already filled by modal will.

sonly the wearkvocalicfom12 V 1

µ

eellipticalgap

: Have must immediately follow a pronoun terminating in a vowel
or diphthong and there should be no ‘gap’ between them.

gap 이있으면contraction X

Study

2) Subcategorisation

②

"

Deep - s 인

Surface - s

I-movement

= 2- +O - C

movement

Subject-auxiliary inversion
Ex) [ S He will tell the truth ] >> Will [ S he tell the truth ] ?

Z

C

subcategornze

sister

∞

< Four arguments to support that inverted aux originate in I >

1) Gap argument

I position was originally filled by the modal will / Gap is left
behind in the original I position / Gaps cannot be refilled.

Study

3) Have contraction

.

4) Landing site (C)

: Inversion will be blocked by the presence of an overt comp

s

γ Deep -

structure

Complementisers (whether/if)
and preposed aux ( be/should)
are mutually exclusive ( =in
complementary distribution )

Study

땄
C ,

밑‰

nave ~

Has he a car ?

,

ux' nave

mame.

John be unhappy

Is John nbappy ?

p

Study

NP movement
In passive
Structures

< Evidence that preverbal VP originates in postverbal position>

1) Subcategorisation

s

I cannot be refilled by

otner NP

4) Thematic relations

2) Gap argument

Deep - structure )

3) Idiom chunks

thetarole of

"

"

goal

⑧

Study

Restrictions
Of passivization

5) Selection restrictions ( select argument/ subcategorize comp)

: Passive subjects exhibit the same selection restrictions as
active objects.

This is an apparent violation of the condition that an NP can
only be passivized if adjacent of a verb !!

Study

: (78) suggest that V and the following P belong to separate
constituents while (79)-(85) suggest that V and P together form
a single constituent. How can be resolve the paradox ?

ㅅ

옳

γ

①

②

Prepositional passives are only possible where reanalysis has
applied. (79)-(85) ―> The presence of intervening material
between V and P blocks reanalysis and blocks passivization.

Study

Verbal passive : transformational passive   Vs   Adjectival passive ( non-transformational passive / lexical passive )

Double passive structure

NPs which are adjacent to verbs can be passivized but not all NPs.

Advantage was taken of John.    John was taken advantage of

takecare of )
+ NP

(tane notice of )

+ ND

(take accountof )

+ NP
( rake noteof )

+ NP

Drink Brandy

after Dinner

leadjunct

⑤

take advantage
of
Jobn

eexploit)

complement

①⑫

뽕

Reanalysis rule applies after lexicalisation and before transformation

Passivization is precluded from applying to adjunct NPs.

Adjectival passive  지금껏 verbal passive만 보았다!

sonlyattach to adjectives

↴

Noun 수식

verbal passive : sunk

coordinated with adjective

↴

'

'

very

premodify adjective ,

X verb

copular verbt adjective

: Verbal passive involve NP movement, adjectival passives involve
no application of any movement rule.

Study

NP movement
In raising
Structures

(Subject)Raising construction
109) John seems to me [ S ___ to be unhappy ]. Nonfinite 하위절

< Two arguments to support that ‘John’ is underlyingly the
subject of the infinitival phrase ‘to be happy’

―>> NP ‘John’ originates not as the main clause subject, but
rather as the subordinate clause subject. (Subject raising )

1) Reflexives

= (110) It seems to be [ S-bar that John is unhappy ]. Finite 하위절

Infinitive complements of ‘seem’ cannot be introduced by an
overt complementiser
*It seems to me [for John to be unhappy].
*John seems to me [ for to be unhappy].

Reflexives require a compatible clausemate antecedent

(113) John considers [ S Fred to be too sure of himself ].
―>> ‘himself’ can only be ‘Fred’ since reflexive must have an
antecedent within their own S.

(114) John seems to me [ S ___ to have perjured himself ].
―>> How can ‘himself’ be construed with ‘John’ if they are not in
the same clause.
Answer : John originates as the underlying subject of the
perjured clause.

⑦

p

Surface-S or Deep-S 중에 한번만 만족해도 된다.
―>> sometime clausemate antecedent

Seem이 PRO를 가질 수 없는지에 대한 증거

1) Pleonastic pronouns

: It has no reference

Existential
There

Speaker A : There’s someone at the door.
Speaker B : *Where’s someone at the door?

: It cannot serve as the controller of PRO.

: Existential there can only occur as the subject of a class of
existential predicates ‘ exist, be, occur, arise, take place’.
Ex) There was/ arose/ occurred an unfortunate incident.

Study

2) Agreement

Predicate nominal ( NP used as the complement of a copula verb
like be) agrees in number with the subject of its own clause.

(119) They consider [S John to be a fool / *fools ]
(120) They seems to me [ S ___ to be fools / * a fool ]
: ‘they’ originates in the __ position as the subordinate clause
subject, predicate nominal agrees with the underlying subject
of its own clause.

Control production
(121) I am anxious to finish the assignment.
(122) I am anxious [ C PRO to finish the assignment ] S-bar
= I am anxious that I should finish the assignment.

Why couldn’t we analyze ‘seem’ as a control predicate ??
(124) John seems to me to be a traitor to himself.
(125) John seems to me [ C PRO to be a traitor to himself ].

PRO can occur only as the subject of an S-bar complement and
not as the subject of an S complement
(126) *John considers [ S PRO to be intelligent ].

: Infinitival complement of ‘seem’ has the status of S ( not S-
bar), PRO can only occur as the subject of S-bar and not as the
subject of S, the infinitival complement of ‘seem’ cannot
contain a PRO subject.

Study

2) Idiom chunk argument

selectional Restrictions

Subject idiom chunks :
• The cat is out of the bag. 비밀이 누설되다
• The cat has got his tongue 꿀먹은 벙어리이다
• The fur will fly 큰 소동이 일어나다

Control predicates like ‘anxious’ do not allow idiom chunk subs
Ex) *The cat is anxious [ C PRO to be out of the bag ]
Non-idiomatic use, the NP [the cat] can indeed function as the
subject of anxious.
(139) The cat is anxious [ C PRO to go outside ].

여기까지는 전부 syntactic property였다. control과 raising을 구별하
는 semantic property도 있다.

passivization

ex) The doctor seems to have examined John
= ___ seems [ the doctor to have examined John]
___ seems [ John to have been examined by doctor ].
―>> John raising!!
John seems to have been examined by the doctor.

post - verbal
고 passive

하지만 control predicate에서는 불가능

Study

NP movement
In Small clause

- 부엌에서 싸움이 일어날 것 같아요.
- 터키에서 콜레라가 발생할 가능성이 있어요.
- 다카에서 폭동이 발생할 것으로 예상됩니다.
- 인디애나에서 문제가 발생할 것 같아요.
- 밥의 집에서 모임이 예정되어 있어요.
- 그의 주머니에 데스레이가 우연히 들어있었어요.
- 거품 프로그램에 대한 반대가 생겨났어요.
- 비누에 독소가 포함되어 있었어요.
- 불가리아에서 기근이 발생할 위험이 있어요.
- 당신의 주장에 결함이 없었으면 좋겠어요.

o

이렇게 쓰일수 # bassive 만거침

passive

Raising

Non - agentive

= dynamic intransitive
= unaccusative

paired

The gangshattered the glass (승 )
Theglass shalttered [중간태)

middle construction

The glass was shatteredbythegang

(수)

Uopaired : The ascident occured last weere .

middle verb : Beurocratsbribe easily) manneradvers

Greekstranslate well

」 수단

ergative
자연발생적 현상

xused with by - phrase

middle

verb
주어의 일반적

속성 s

middleverbla): stative verb

Study

NP movement
In ergative
And middle
structures

능동

middle
voice

수동

Ergative

construction

삔

Study

Extraposition

= Adjunction / Move a PP or S-bar contained within an NP to the
end of the S containing it.

< Evidence to support that PP or S-bar originate within the NP>

1) Subcategorisation

‰

2) Gap argument  Gaps cannot be refilled by other element

Study

기출 !!

What is the constituent to which the extraposed phrase is
adjoined ?

Extraposition off a subject NP

V

Extraposition
Off an object NP

@

}

∅

「

Study

adjunct

complement

)

adjunct

complement

p

ㅇ

」

o③-

ㄴ

i

V

i

c - command ×

- VProLi 2라

IPo에 adjunctV

Extraposition rule applies in successive steps.

Study

Study

Study 트포 챕터 9 Wh-movement

Questions types Yes-no question / wh-question

• Echo question ( nonecho question ) : They involve one person echoing the speech of

another.

1) Echo statement
Ex) A: I bought a car.  B: You bought a car ??
-Wh-echo question : B) You bought what??

2) Echo Question
-Echo a question : A ) Did you buy a car ?  B ) Did you buy a car? ( Why do you ask ? )
-Wh-echo question : A) Did you buy a car ? B ) Did I what?

3) Echo imperative
A) Don’t touch my projectile. B ) Don’t touch your what?

Nonecho question : Questions which do not echo the speech of others.
그래서 누가 들어와서 질문을 하게 되면 echo question은 쓰지 못한다. nonecho question을 써야 함
왜냐면 echo questions can only be used to echo a previous sentence.

• Where have you been ?  (O)
• You have been where ? (X) wh-echo question

• Direct and indirect question
1) Direct questions are questions where the interrogative structure is independent ss.
Ex) When did you get back ??

2) Indirect questions are questions where the interrogative structure is a dependent ss.
( dependent : embedded, subordinate clause which is the comp of a verb like ‘ask’ and
‘wonder’. )
Ex) He asked me who I had talked to. Vs direct Q : Who did you talk to ?

• Direct nonecho wh-questions = wh-questions
Ex) Which car will your father put in the garage ?
[ S’ Which car will [ S your father [ VP put in the garage ]]] ?

Position들
• Will의 position : Inverted modals are positioned outside S in C / Modal ‘will’
originates within I immediately following the NP subject [ your father]

• Wh-NP [ which car] originates within VP as the object of put

S-S : [ S’ Which car will [ S your father [ VP put in the garage ]]] ?
D-S : [ S’ C [ S Your father [ I will] [ VP put which car in the garage ]]].

p

yesor No

Study

Syntactic
argument

Wh-phrase originate within S comes from (1) subcategorization facts.

John put [ NP the car ] [PP in the garage ].
*John put [ NP the car ].
*John put [PP in the garage ].
*John put

Put can only be inserted into a V-bar where  it is immediately followed by both an
Np and a PP.

근데 이러면 다음 문장은 비문 아닌가?
[ S’ Which car will [ S your father [ V’ put in the garage ]]]?
왜냐면 put has only the PP complement [ in the garage ] and no NP complement, the
violation of subcategorization frame which requires put to have both an NP and a
PP complement.

하지만 위의 문장은 정문이다!! Because [ Which car ] originates as an NP object of the
verb put within S.

3) Gap argument : We should expect to find extraction site in the position out of
which the wh-phrase has been moved.

[ S’ Which car will [ S your father put _ in the garage ] ?
: It is impossible to insert an overt NP in this gap ( gaps cannot be refilled )
*Which car will your father put the bike in the garage ?

Your father will put [NP which car] [ NP the bike ] [ PP in the garage ] .
—>> This is obviously ill-formed since it does not satisfy the subcategorization
frame of ‘put’. ( put subcategorize an NP and a PP )

4) Quantifiers like ‘all’ and adverbs like ‘ever’
: Can be positioned either before or after the verb ‘be’
• They all were socialists.  They were all socialists.
•

I don’t know if they ever were happy. I don’t know if they were ever happy.

However when the complement of the verb ‘be’ has undergone ellipsis, the quantifier
an adverb can only be positioned before ( not after ) be.

2
2) Idiom chunk : Noun phrases which are highly restricted in their distribution. They
generally occur only in conjunction with some specific verb.

Generalization : Quantifier like ‘all’ or adverb like ‘ever’ cannot be positioned
immediately before a gap in a sentence.

왜 여기서 (B) 문장들은 비문인가 ?? The wh-AP (how happy) originates in the position
marked by the dash, and is subsequently preposed into the italicised position by
application of wh movement.

s

Study

Morphological
Argument

1) Case-marking facts

2) Agreement : Person-number agreement
—>> An NP which is the sister of a finite I must agree with I in person and number
A finite I will contain either a base-generated modal, or a V moved into an empty
finite I by the rule of V movement ( V-I movement )

s

sisteroffinites " will"

object

∞

sister of the finite I

transizire verb

∞

ㄴ

Nominativecase

s
- s

D - S

원래 theta role은 deep structure/ case는 surface structure이지만
wh-phrase는 case는 deep structure에서 받는다!!

robjective case

Study

Phonological
arguments

1) Auxiliary contraction

2) Wanna contraction
•

I want to win / I wanna win ( wanna contraction )

(55) (a) Who do you want to beat —?
      (b) Who do you wanna beat ?

(56) (a) Who do you want — to win ?
      (b) *Who do you wanna win ?

Wanna contraction is blocked when there is a gap between want and to.
When Wh movement applies, it leaves behind a gap of some sort at the extraction
stie ( in the position out of which the wh-phrase has been extracted )

(53b)가 비문인 이유는 how good가 빈칸에 있다가 앞으로 나가서 Mary와 is가 contraction 불가능
(gap이 바로 뒤에 있기 때문에! gap이 사이에 껴서 contraction이 안되는게 아니라 뒤따라오면 불가능
하다는 것을 기억하자 !! )

Study

Semantic
arguments

1) Interpretation of reflexives
복습 : (non subject) reflexives generally require a sometime clausemate antecedent.

WHICH WITNESS did you say you thought [ — perjured himself ] ? 거짓 증언하다
: 오잉 이거 sometime clausemate antecedent를 어기는 일 아닌가? ‘Which witness’ is
positioned at the front of say Clause, whereas ‘himself’ is contained in perjured-
clause.

Which witness originates at the D-S in the position marked by —, as the subject of
the bracketed complement clause. 이러면 sometime clausemate condition을 지킬 수 있다.

2) structural ambiguity

To whom did you say that Mary was talking ? S-S
• To whom : complement of say
You said [ to whom ]that Mary was talking ?
You did say to whom [ that Mary was talking ] ? D-S

• To whom : complement of talking
You said that Mary was talking [ to whom ]?
You did say [that Mary was talking to whom ]? D-S

둘이 deep structure가 다른데 어떻게 한개의 surface structure로 결론이 나왔을까?
: I movement applies to move the auxiliary ‘did’ in front of the main S, and Wh
movement applies to move [ the whom ]in front of the preposed auxiliary ‘did’.

3) Thematic structure

pa

?

However Wh movement를 고려하면 (63)은 비문이 아니다!!

You do think Mary will wear which dress ?
: Theta-role assignment takes place at D-structure, then Mary will be assigned the
role agent by being the NP preceding wear, and which dress will be assigned the role
of theme by being the NP immediately following wear.

4) Selectional restrictions

(cid:8805)

Study

Wh movement
In relative
clauses

지금까지는 wh movement in interrogative structure만 본 것이다! 하지만 there are many
other types of wh-construction and one type of it is relative clauses.

•

Free relative clauses : They are antecedentless / Do not refer back to any other
constituent in the sentence containing them.

Relative clauses : restrictive relative clause, appositive relative clause, free relative

• Restrictive relative clauses :

• Appositive relative clauses :

1) Restrictive relative clause부터 보자!! Restrictive relative clause introduced by an
overt wh-pronoun.

Undergo wh-movement/
originate within S and wind up
outside S as the constituent
of S-bar

그럼 that도 이동하나?
아니~ that in restrictive relative
clause has the same function
which it has in a complement
clause like (78)

그럼 that은 pronoun ? Complementiser ?

that : wh-NP (X) / complementiser (O)

•
Evidence (1) : Typical pronoun ( who or which ) can function as the immediately
following complement of a preposition, whereas that cannot.

Evidence (2) : NPs have a genitive case-form and this is true of
pronominal NPs (cf. his ) / wh-NPs who and which have genitive form
whose, but ‘that’ does not.

Ex) The man whose / *that’s mother died.
      The book whose / *that’s cover was torn.

Study

Evidence (3) : Wh- pronouns tend to carry specific syntactic or semantic properties,
whereas complementisers X.
—>> who implies a human antecedent, and which a non-human antecedent ( this is why
they should be analysed as pronouns )
However, ‘that’ is semantically neutral or inert, since it can be used with any type of
antecedent.

Evidence (4) : wh-NPs occur freely in finite or infinitival clauses
( interrogative what : I don’t know what to say, I don’t know what I should say )
Whereas complementisers may be restricted to occurring only in a given type of clause.
Ex) for - infinitive clause/ that and if : finite clause )

(cid:8805)

Evidence (6) : Wh pronouns leave a gap in its original extraction site.

Evidence (5) : Restrictive relatives can be introduced by an overt complementiser

All of the six evidences support that ‘that’ is a complementiser and not Wh-pronoun.
But this poses a problem in this argument.

The book [that I put on the table ].
We have seen before that ‘put’ subcategorises both an obligatory NP complement and
an obligatory PP complement.
여기서 지금 PP는 있지만 NP가 없다. ( if we accept that relative ‘that’ is a complemenriser
and not a wh-NP )

Solution (1) : Overt relative pronouns : who which where when why 와 다르게 there are
covert pronouns ( empty ) = zero relative pronouns ( empty wh-operators )

Now, there is a resulting sequence of covert wh-pronoun + complementiser that

Study

The claim that relative wh-pronouns are moved to the left of C seems plausible, on
universalist grounds.

Thus there seems to be some empirical evidence to support that-relatives contain a
zero relative pronoun operator ‘O’ which undergoes wh movement.

Direct question : [ S’ What [ C will ][ S he do — ] ?
—>> Wh movement ( movement of a relative wh-phrase to the left of C )

Supportive argument of movement (1) : Islands / islandhood

‘Who’ has been extracted out of a bracketed NP which functions as a complement of
the verb engineer ( 95a )
‘Who’ has been extracted out of a bracketed NP which functions as a subject of the
verb cause ( 95b)
‘Who’ has been extracted out of a bracketed PP which functions as an adjunct of the
verb collapse ( 95c )

: Movement rules can extract constituents out of containing complement phrases, but
not out of containing subject phrases or adjunct phrases.

Restrictive relative clause which are introduced by an overt complementiser like that
or for, but which contains no overt wh-phrase : we might refer to such structures as
complementiser relatives.

We can say that such complementiser relatives involve wh movement of a zero relative
pronoun or empty wh-operator out of its underlying position within S into its
superficial position within S-bar to the immediate left of the complementiser
position.

Contact relatives : relative clauses which contain neither an overt complementiser, nor
an overt wh-phrase.

We might say contact
relatives involve both an
empty complementiser and an
empty preposed wh-pronoun
( If we extend our empty
operator analysis to this
relative structure )

Study

Other wh-constructions

What a + count noun : never used in interrogatives
Ex) *What a nice dress was she wearing ?

FOCUS POSITION

F

\

「

covert & overt wh - phrases

Cleft vs Restrictive clause

①

②

Study

Targets for Wh movement

What kid of constituents can be the target for WH movement ??

Answer : wh-phrases which contains a wh-word like who, what, when, why, where,
which or how

∠

∠

<

Study

natural predicate : 다른 하나의 단어로 대체될 수 있는 의미단위/ live in = inhibit / 430 page

결론부터 말하면 답은 아니다! 둘은 같지 않다! Differences between preposition stranding in
passives vs prepositions stranding in wh-questions

①

②

③

그냥 adjunct 가 X

Reanalysis rule is optional for Wh- movement ( 132-a/ 132-b 둘다 가능할지도 )

= pied piping

= orphaned

-> tronting of wh- pp

→ fronting of Wh - NP

complex verbe

Reanalysis

(127-130)도 (131)처럼 reanalysis rule 적용 ??

stranded
preposition in

the previous

chapter

( passive structure)

to derive 12 n (b )

→

Study

The landing site
For moved wh-
phrase

Pre - complementiser position

C- adjunction analysis

He will do what ?

↓

I- C

movement

↓

wh - movement

"

C- specifier analysis

5- bar

S

C permits only a single specifier
하지만 c-adjunction을 택하면
Since adjunction is by nature
recursive, there is no way to
explain (161) 비문 ~~

Study

Status of S

What is the head of S ??? Answer : I

Study

Status of
small clause

Study

Study 트포 챕터 10

whrelement

'

c

.

Tp

I mor「 「
. p
"

7

.

3) Resultative or consecutive clauses :

subjecE -s adjoin to Tp
object → adjoin to Vp

V movs

×

Other
movement
rules

All the various transformations together into a single rule
of alpha movement

1) Negative preposing : Landing-site ) c-specifier position

All of the movements above : Move a constituent out of IP into
the C-specifier position within CP.
All four types of preposed constituent ( preposed negative
phrases, VPs, consecutive phrase, wh-phrases ) are mutually
exclusive.
—>> If C-spec position is occupied by one type of preposed
constituent, it cannot be filled by another.

'
s- par

ns

2) VP preposing
Ex) John hoped that Mary would find his hat, but [ VP find it ] she
could not ___
John intends to make a table, and [ VP make one ] he will ___

」 c - position

Indirect Q : [ VP working late ] do [ IP you really think he was __ ? ]

4) Topicalisation : C-spec position

Conclusion : Dislocated constituents are base-generated in the
position they occupy at S-structure.

BUT what position do they occupy in S-structure ??

[ NP That kind of pen ] [ C can ] [ IP you use it for anything ~~ ] ?
(cid:20294)(cid:18496)(cid:19364) (cid:19597)(cid:19425) (cid:20068)~ dislocated constituent(cid:19022) C-spec position(cid:20294)(cid:18579)(cid:18786)
(cid:19214)(cid:18532) (cid:21056)(cid:18633) (cid:19917)(cid:20226) BUT this is not it.

[ NP That kind of pen] [ CP [ NP what] [C can ] [ IP you use it for]] ?
Here, the C-spec position is filled by the wh-NP specifier ‘what’.
So dislocated constituents are adjoined to CP
Rule ) CP—>> XP CP

Dislocated clauses have the same categorial status as ordinary
clauses. So this means that clauses containing dislocated
constituents can freely be conjoined with ordinary clauses
lacking dislocated constituents.

Study

Topicalisation vs Dislocation

Handle topicalisation by a movement rule but NOT!! Dislocation

1) Topicalisation exhibits the typical movement property of
leaving a gap at the extraction-site of the rule.
Vs Dislocation involves no gap at all within IP.
-Clause linked with the dislocated constituent contains some
expression referring back to the dislocated phrase.

2) Case-marking facts : Movement preserves case-marking

left dislocatresumptive

cresumptive

- right

cislocation

In (14), dislocated constituents are assigned objective case,
irrespective of the case assigned to the resumptive NP.
While resumptive NP is assigned nominative case.

Study

Biliman CP
Bi「*

(
순서가 C
바뀔수 X

TP

Topicalisation vs Dislocation : interjection of ‘man’

Alpha movement

•

interjection man can occur after dislocated constituents
but not after topicalised constituent.

~)총장이
C

^

¤

불균형

No crossing
branches
Constraint

Interjection like man and dislocated constituents are CP
adjuncts, but that topicalised phrase occupy the C-specifier
position.

Interjection man can precede both topicalised and dislocated
constituents :

포함하와

Study

9 - c movemenE

-

T

wh - movement

U σ

case (X)

Ease ( x )

Study

Study

Study

{

ㄻ

"

I

VP

Study

- VPo에 adjoin

- IP에 adjoin

Study

Study

∠

× 불가능!

' 이

wnom

이게맞기는 한데 '
등장하는걸로 보봐서는 unbounded
analysis 도 부정은 못함 !

Study

X

⑮

Study

조셉신 모고 9-11 2024 6회 B 2번

Nγ

NP

지문의 논리를 따라가기 좋은 문제 !!

some

spicy

thing

specifier of Xp

여기를 말하는것

XP
, .
↑
싯

TD

기

have 다음에

occur 해야지

'

al '

은

stranded 가 가능하고

themen' 이 have 앞으로 간다!

Tip

have

Ψ
Λ

V

all

the

men

고 여기 아래에서 답찾기

σ

nave 가

기준이구나 ~ !

- Up

Study

Study

